Matching: The control is required to be consistent with the case on certain factors or characteristics, with the aim of eliminating the interference of matching factors when comparing the two groups.
Over-matching: By including unnecessary works in the matching, trying to make the cases and controls as consistent as possible, information may be lost in vain, making the work more difficult and reducing the efficiency of the study.
Admission rate bias Berkson bias: When hospital patients are used as cases and controls, because the control is a part of the hospital patients, rather than a random sample of the whole target population; and because of the two-way selectivity, the cases in the case group are not a random sample of all patients, it is inevitable to generate bias, especially because the admission rates of various diseases are different, resulting in systematic differences in some characteristics between the case group and the control group. The difference between the case and control groups is systematic.
Current cases, new cases bias Neyman bias: If the respondents are selected from current cases, much of the information obtained may be related only to survival and not necessarily to the onset of the disease, thus overestimating the etiological role of certain exposure factors. Or survivors of a disease may have changed their lifestyle habits and thus reduced the level of a risk factor, or they may have exaggerated or reduced certain characteristics of their lifestyle habits when they were investigated, leading to an inaccurate association of a factor with the disease.
Recall biasrecall bias: systematic errors in conclusions due to distortion or incompleteness of respondents' memory.
Confounding factor: When studying the association between a factor and a disease, the association between the factor studied and the disease is obscured or exaggerated by the influence of an external factor that is both a constraint to the disease and associated with the exposure factor studied.
Hawthorne effect: refers to the effect of an ongoing study on the person being studied.
Placebo effect: A positive psychological effect that is manifested in some subjects due to their dependence on medicine, which can even affect the physiological effect.
Double blind double blind: neither the study subjects nor the researchers giving the intervention or outcome assessment are aware of the experimental groupings, but the study designer arranges and controls the entire experiment.
Triple blind: The person responsible for data collection and analysis was also blinded on the basis of double blind. Noncompliance noncomplince: A study in which the subjects do not comply with the requirements set by the experiment after randomization.
Randomized controlled trials RCTs: are prospective, experimental controlled studies conducted in a population to evaluate the effects of medical interventions.
