Standardized mortality ratio SMR: The number of morbidity or mortality in the exposed group was used to calculate a standardized ratio to the expected morbidity or mortality figure calculated from the total population rate. A ratio greater than 1 indicates that it caused or contributed to the occurrence of the outcome, less than 1 indicates that the exposure prevented or reduced the occurrence of the outcome, and equal to 1 means that the exposure was not associated with the disease.
Internal control: A study population was selected, of which those exposed to the studied factors were the exposed group and the rest of the non-exposed subjects were the control group.
External controls: When selecting an occupational or special exposed population as the exposed population, it is often not possible to select a control group from these populations, and it is often necessary to find a control group outside the population, so it is called an external control.
Cumulative incidence: If the study population is large and stable, the cumulative incidence of a disease can be calculated by using the population size at the beginning of the observation as the denominator and the number of incidences (or deaths) during the entire observation period as the numerator.
Incidence density: The incidence rate is calculated by observing human hours as the denominator, and the rate calculated by using human hours is called with instantaneous frequency.
Standardized proportional mortality ratio (SPMR): The expected number of deaths for a cause of disease was obtained by multiplying the proportion of deaths for a cause of disease in the whole population by the actual number of deaths in a unit, and then calculating the ratio of the actual number of deaths to the expected number of deaths.
Relative risk RR: is the ratio of the risk of the exposed group to the risk of the control group. rR=le/l o
Attributed risk AR: is the absolute value of the difference between the incidence rate in the exposed group and the incidence rate in the control group. ar=le-l o
Attributed risk percentage AR%:The fraction of morbidity or mortality in the exposed population attributable to exposure as a percentage of total morbidity or mortality.
Population attributable risk PAR % PAR%: refers to the fraction of total population morbidity attributable to exposure,3PAR% refers to PAR as a percentage of total population total morbidity (or mortality).
Case-control study: The case study was conducted by using diagnosed patients as cases and non-diseased but comparable individuals as controls, collecting the history of exposure to various possible risk factors through questioning, laboratory tests or review of medical history, measuring and comparing the proportion of exposure to each factor in the case group and the control group, and evaluating the statistical association between the factors and the disease by statistical tests. The statistical association between the factors and the disease was evaluated by statistical tests. The effect of various biases was assessed after etiology to infer the risk factors and thus validate the etiological hypothesis.
