Status study: A description of the relationship between a variable (factor) of interest and a disease or health condition in a population at a specific point in time (or period) and within a specific range.
Census census: refers to a specific point in time or period, a specific range of the entire population are the study of the line ah survey.
Sampling survey: refers to a random sampling method, a representative sample of the population at a specific point in time, a specific range of the survey, the sample statistics to estimate the overall parameters of the range.
Simple random sampling: from the total of N objects, using a lottery or other random method to select n objects, forming a sample, the probability of each object in the total being drawn is equal
Systematic sampling: that is, mechanical sampling, according to a certain order, mechanical sampling method to draw a unit every few units. Stratified sampling: The total is first divided into sub-totals according to certain characteristics, and then a simple random sample is taken from each layer to form a sample.
Whole-group sampling: The total population is divided into several groups, and some of these groups are selected as observation units to form the sample. Multi-stage sampling: The sampling process is carried out in stages, and the sampling method used in each stage is often different, i.e., a combination of various sampling methods is used, which is commonly used in large epidemiological surveys.
Ecological study: ecological study is a type of descriptive study in which the relationship between an exposure factor and a disease is analyzed by describing the exposure status and frequency of the disease in different populations, using the population as the unit of observation and analysis,
Cohort study: It is an observational study that divides the population into different subgroups according to whether they are exposed to a suspected factor and its degree of exposure, tracks their respective outcomes, and compares the differences in the frequency of outcomes between different subgroups to determine whether there is a causal association between the exposure factor and the outcome and the size of the association.
Exposure: A subject has been exposed to a substance to be studied, has a characteristic or behavior to be studied.
Fixed cohortfixed cohort: means that the population all enter the cohort at a fixed time or within a short period of time, after which they are followed up and observed until the end of the observation period, members do not withdraw for reasons other than the ending time, and no new members are added, that is, the cohort remains relatively fixed during the observation period.
Dynamic queue dynamic cohort: that is, after a certain queue is determined, the original queue members can constantly exit, and new observation objects can join at any time.
