Selection of exposed populations:Occupational populations, specially exposed populations, general populations, organized groups of people.
Selection of control populations: internal control, external control, total population control, and multiple control.
Characteristics of case-control studies: retrospective, cause-and-effect, observational method, and no verification of etiology.
Case selection: The main focus is to determine the criteria for judging patients and how to obtain patients who meet the criteria. Generally, community sources are preferable and representative, but difficult to implement. Using hospital-sourced cases can be cost-saving, easy to obtain, good cooperation, more complete and accurate information, but prone to selection bias.
Control sources: ① other cases diagnosed in the same or multiple medical institutions ② cases of neighbors or in the same neighborhood, residential area of healthy people or non-patients ③ social groups in the population of non-patients or healthy people ④ community population of non-patients or healthy people ⑤ cases of spouses, siblings, relatives, classmates or colleagues neighbors
Epidemiological characteristics of the experiment :It is a prospective study, randomized group, with a balanced and comparable control group, and with an intervention.
Types of experimental epidemiology:Clinical trials, field trials, community trials.
Principles of experimental epidemiology: (1) Randomization grouping: simple, stratified, whole group randomization. (2) The way to establish controls ① The main factors affecting the study effect: natural history of the disease, Hawthorne effect, placebo effect. (2) The way to set up controls: standard method control, placebo control, self control, crossover control. (3) Application of blinding method.
Factors affecting the reliability of the screening test: ① biological variation of the subject, the same subject at different times to obtain clinical measurements fluctuate ② observer: due to different levels of skill between measurers, the same measurer at different times, different levels of conscientiousness, biological sensory differences, expected bias, etc. can lead to inconsistent results of repeated measurements ③ laboratory conditions: repeated measurements, the measuring instrument is not (3) Laboratory conditions: when repeated measurements, the measurement instrument is not stable, the test method itself is not stable, etc. may cause measurement errors.
Etiology and causal inference criteria:temporal order of association, strength of association, reproducibility of association, plausibility of association, and strength of causal argument of the study.
The epidemiological significance and use of the incubation period: ① according to the length of the incubation period to determine the patient's time of infection to further trace the source of infection, to determine the route of transmission ② according to the length of the incubation period to determine the duration of the contact stay, quarantine or medical observation, generally with the average incubation period plus 1 to 2 days, the serious danger of infectious diseases can be the longest incubation period to stay or quarantine ③ according to the length of the incubation period can determine the immunization ③ According to the length of the incubation period can determine the time of immunization ④ according to the incubation period can evaluate the effectiveness of preventive measures. ⑤ The length of the incubation period can affect the epidemiological characteristics of the disease
