1, Zhong Nanshan: Academician of the Chinese Academy of Engineering, once again in danger, the command of the pro-quest, daring to speak out, a household name, a call to arms, all the people do not move, is an academician, but also a warrior, but also a national warrior.
2、Lilanjuan: Academician of the Chinese Academy of Engineering, has indelible merits to win the battle, the first person who proposed "Wuhan sealing the city", fought in the front line of the fight against the epidemic, and led the team to develop the vaccine.
3. Chen Wei: Academician of Chinese Academy of Engineering, biochemist, virus terminator, shortens nucleic acid testing time and speeds up the confirmation of diagnosis.
4, Zhang Wenhong: Shanghai medical treatment team leader, Huashan Hospital, Fudan University, director of the Department of Infection, more like a highly skilled psychotherapist, he was flirting with people while healing the trauma brought to people's hearts, "What is the most effective drug? Human immunity", "You are a warrior even if you are isolated at home, the virus is smothering you", "All are singing the praises of doctors, the complete statement should be medical personnel", "Fire prevention and anti-theft prevention of colleagues " became a famous phrase in the fight against the epidemic.
5, Zhang Jixian: Wuhan Central Hospital doctors, the first person to report the epidemic, fighting on the front line of the fight against the epidemic, the urgent needs of patients, "I have shed all the tears of my life this time!"
6、Wang Chen: Academician of the Chinese Academy of Engineering, the country's leading expert in respiratory and critical care medicine, and Zhong Lao, the same name, boldly proposed the idea of building square cabin hospitals, so that Wuhan in just 24 hours, quickly built three "square cabin hospitals", adding more than 4,000 beds, which is more than four times the number of beds in Vulcan Hill Hospital.
7. Zhang Boli: Academician of the Chinese Academy of Engineering, giving full play to the unique advantages of Chinese medicine, has improved the cure rate of moderate and mild patients and reduced the mortality rate of severe and critical patients.
8, Zhang Dingyu: President of Wuhan Jinyintan Hospital, epidemic sniper, suffering from acromegaly still fighting in the front line of the fight against the epidemic. "I have to run faster to win the time; I have to run faster to snatch more patients from the hands of the virus." This tough guy, this sniper has only one target in his eyes - the new coronavirus, sniping, sniping, sniping again.
9、Zhang Sibing: President of Wuhan Vulcan Mountain Hospital and Director of the General Hospital of the People's Liberation Army, he and his hospital achieved three "zero infections" in the fight against SARS in 2003, assisted in the construction of Xiaotangshan Hospital, and was assigned to fight against the epidemic this time, he wanted to improve the treatment process, because the process is very important.
10、Wang Xinghuan: President of Wuhan Lei Shen Shan Hospital and President of Wuhan University Central South Hospital. "Everything for the sake of the patient" is Wang Xinghuan's motto. "Try to develop different programs for different patients, so that treatment can be individualized and personalized." As of Feb. 16, the total number of patients admitted to Raytheon Hill Hospital was nearly 600.
