Home isolation is the main non-pharmaceutical intervention and low-cost measure to contain an epidemic, and personal protective measures such as self-isolation are one of the effective measures to control the epidemic of infectious diseases. As the epidemic progresses, specific isolation measures do not vary from place to place, and home isolation should be carried out according to the specific requirements of each place. Also, according to the changing dynamics of the epidemic outside the country, people returning from abroad should

During home isolation, the role of community health centers and hospitals should be utilized. Isolated persons can seek advice and assistance from community doctors at home by phone or WeChat. Community doctors can also understand and observe the health status of isolated persons through telephone and WeChat video, and provide follow-up guidance. If the person is not available for isolation and observation at home or in the hospital, he or she can go to the local centralized isolation site for isolation.

(1) Individuals with suspected symptoms

Individuals with suspected symptoms should first isolate themselves and seek medical attention at the nearest fever clinic as soon as possible, for details, please refer to "(1) Suspected symptoms in yourself or your family" in "2.

(2) Close contacts and suspected exposed persons

Close contacts and suspected exposures are subject to isolation for medical observation.

Close contacts are anyone who has had close contact with the source of infection (patients with novel coronavirus pneumonia and carriers of the pathogen) and may have been infected. This includes the following.

(1) Living, studying and working together with the patient as colleagues in the same office or classmates in the same classroom or dormitory.
(2) Health care workers who treat and care for the patient, relatives and friends who visit the patient, or other persons who have had close contact with the patient.
(3) The patient travels on the same transport with close contact, including fellow passengers (family members, colleagues and friends, etc.) who have cared for the patient on the transport, as well as other passengers and crew members who, after investigation and assessment, are considered likely to have close contact with the patient.
(4) Field investigators investigated and assessed to be in line with other persons in contact with close contacts.
Suspected exposed persons are those who are exposed to wildlife that tests positive for novel coronavirus and its contaminated articles and environment, and who are not effectively protected at the time of exposure, such as processing, selling, handling, distribution or management.

Self-isolation methods are as follows.

1) Place the isolated person in a well-ventilated, separate room. If a separate room is not available, the caregiver should also maintain a distance of at least 1 meter from close contacts.
(2) Family members should wear masks when entering the isolated person's activity space. Deny visits from people inside or outside the family.
3) Limit the range of movement of isolated persons and ensure that shared areas (toilets and bathrooms, etc.) are well ventilated.
4) Do not spit, and cover your mouth and nose with a tissue or elbow sleeve when coughing or sneezing.
5) Wash your hands regularly. When washing hands with soap and water, it is best to use disposable hand wipes. Minimize and avoid contact with supplies used by close contacts (cell phones, remote controls, utensils and towels, etc.), disinfect public supplies (tables, chairs and door handles, etc.), and recommend the use of chlorinated disinfectants and peroxyacetic acid disinfectants.
6) Wear good disposable gloves and masks to clean and disinfect the home environment, wet mop the floor with chlorinated disinfectant daily, and seal and dispose of garbage properly. Keep the home environment clean.

Subjects under observation should seek immediate medical attention as soon as they develop symptoms, especially of acute respiratory infections, including fever, cough, sore throat, and difficulty breathing or diarrhea, as recommended below.

1) Isolated persons should wear a mask and keep more than 1 meter away from other people once they develop symptoms (this should be done for both transportation or medical facilities).
(2) Public transportation should be avoided as much as possible, you can call 120 or drive to the hospital, pay attention to open the car windows to keep ventilation, and disinfect the private car as required when needed.
(3) All personnel who come into contact with the sick person and medical personnel should wash their hands promptly.
4) Any part of the vehicle contaminated by respiratory secretions or body fluids should be disinfected promptly (1 part bleach + 99 parts water).

The observed subjects can resume normal school, work and life after the observation period of 14 days from the last unprotected exposure or suspected exposure to the case, and those who have not developed the disease can resume normal school, work and life.

Both close contacts and suspected exposures should stop self-isolating at home and seek prompt medical attention as soon as one of the following occurs.
1) The presence of dyspnea (including chest tightness, breath-holding, and shortness of breath that worsens with activity).
2) Problems with consciousness (including drowsiness, talking nonsense, confusion between day and night, etc.)
3) Diarrhea.
4) High fever over 39°C.
5) Other family members showing suspicious symptoms of new coronavirus infection.




(1) Please refer to the latest version of the recommended protocol for the treatment of "novel coronavirus pneumonia" at Peking Union Medical College Hospital.

(2) See the latest version of the National Health Commission's "Novel Coronavirus Pneumonia Treatment Protocol".





Universal precautions can be summarized in fifteen words: "wear a mask, wash your hands frequently, cover your nose and mouth, gather less, and exercise more".

(A) Wearing a mask

Wearing a mask is one of the most important means of preventing respiratory infections such as novel coronavirus pneumonia.

What kind of masks work?

Do not choose: paper masks, cotton masks, sponge masks, activated charcoal masks.
You can choose: medical surgical masks, N95 masks (Figure 3).


When to wear a mask?

When you go out and have contact with others, you should wear a mask. Especially when you go to the hospital, take public transportation, or stay in a relatively confined or crowded space for a long time, you should wear a mask reasonably.


How to choose a mask?

General population: the general public, public transportation drivers, cab drivers, sanitation workers, public place service personnel and other on-duty period is recommended to use medical surgical masks, conditional and physical condition allows the conditions, can wear KN95/N95 and above particulate protection masks.

Special populations:People at high risk of exposure to suspected or confirmed cases are recommended in principle to wear medical protective masks and goggles. Patients with certain cardiopulmonary diseases should consult with a medical professional before wearing and choose a suitable mask under the guidance of a medical professional.

What is a medical surgical mask?

First look at the product identification on the outer packaging, product performance needs to comply with YY 0469 a 2011. the outer packaging clearly indicates the medical surgical mask. Medical surgical masks are divided into 3 layers, the outer layer has a water-blocking effect, which prevents droplets from entering the mask to the inside; the middle layer has a filtering effect, and the bacterial filtration efficiency of the mask should be not less than 95%; the inner layer near the mouth and nose is used to absorb moisture (Figure 4).


How do I wear a mask?

Wearing steps (Figure 5): ①Before wearing the medical surgical mask, you should check whether it is within the expiration date. ②Nose clip side facing up, dark side facing out (or fold facing down). ③Pull the folds up and down so that the mask covers the mouth, nose and jaw. ④Touch the fingertips of both hands along the metal strip of the nasal bridge, from the middle to the sides, and slowly press inward until it is tight against the bridge of the nose. ⑤ Adjust the mask appropriately so that the perimeter of the mask fits the face adequately.


Steps for wearing a medical protective mask (Figure 6).
1) Check the expiration date of the mask and the outer packaging.
(2) Hold the mask fastened to the face with the convex side facing outward and the nose clip side facing upward.
3) First set the lower lacing, then set the upper lacing.
4) Touch the fingertips of both hands inward to press the nasal clip and gradually move outward to shape the clip.
(5) Adjust the nose clip and lacing until no air leakage when blowing and inhaling.
(6) contamination, damage and exceed the time limit of use instructions to replace, hold the ties and discarded in the medical (yellow) garbage can.



How do special people wear masks?

(1) Pregnant women wearing protective masks should pay attention to their own conditions and choose products with better comfort.
(2) The elderly and patients with chronic heart and lung diseases will cause discomfort after wearing, and may even aggravate the original condition, should seek professional guidance from a doctor.
(3) Children are in the growth and development stage, their faces are small, so they should choose children's protective masks.


How often should I change my mask?

If the mask is wet or soiled by secretions and the protective performance is reduced, it is recommended to replace it immediately. The public wears masks and does not have to use them once for a change, but can decide whether to use them for a longer period of time depending on the degree of cleanliness.

How to dispose of the mask after use?

After wearing, the mask should be removed in the correct way (Figure 7). Reuse of disposable masks is not recommended. If repeatedly used several times, in addition to the possible decrease in the protective effect of the mask, the dust, bacteria and viruses accumulated on the outer layer of the mask may contaminate the inner surface and cause infection. If the mask is used within the time limit and must be reused due to some special circumstances, do not directly take off the mask and stuff it in your pocket or bag, it should be folded (the side in contact with the nose and mouth should be folded inward) in a clean self-sealing bag to avoid contamination of the inside of the mask by the outside. After taking off the mask, you should wash your hands in time.


The masks worn by healthy people have no risk of transmission of the new coronavirus and are generally replaced when they are deformed, wet or soiled resulting in reduced protective performance. The masks used by the healthy population can be disposed of according to the requirements of household waste classification.

The masks worn by suspected cases or confirmed patients should not be discarded at will, and should be treated as medical waste and handled in strict accordance with the relevant procedures for medical waste, and should not enter the circulation market.

In addition, masks should never be washed with water or alcohol and then reused. Cutting and shredding is not recommended for handling, as droplets may contaminate the scissors. Do not use boiling water to scald the mask either, the operation process will instead increase the risk of viral infection.

How to avoid skin damage when wearing a mask for a long time?

First of all, we should choose the right size mask, avoid using shoddy products, children should choose the right size, and apply some emollient lotion behind the ears of the face when wearing; secondly, we can change the position of the mask or take it off after wearing for a period of time to let the skin reduce pressure, and find that redness and damage should let the skin fully rest and be treated accordingly; finally, we can apply emollient lotion and dressing to reduce skin damage in the pressure area.

(B) frequent hand washing, hand disinfection when necessary


It is essential to wash your hands regularly and in the right way as it can effectively cut off the transmission of the virus.

You should wash your hands promptly after coughing and sneezing, before and after touching outsiders or caring for patients, before and after preparing food, before eating, after going to the bathroom, after touching animals, after handling garbage, after outdoor sports, homework, shopping, and after touching money. If the dirt on your hands is not visible, use a no-rinse hand sanitizer that contains alcohol. Reduce contact with common objects and parts of public places; try to avoid touching your mouth, nose and eyes with your hands when you are not sure if your hands are thoroughly clean.

Hand washing must be done with running water, not basin water, and rubbing time should be at least 20 seconds. You can't just wash your hands with water, you have to use soap or hand sanitizer to effectively remove pathogenic bacteria. If soap is used, the soap should be kept clean and dry. It is best to use hand sanitizer in disposable packages, such as using replacement packs, and to clean and disinfect the container before each dispense; when the soap is cloudy or discolored, it should be replaced. If you use alcohol-based hand sanitizer, please pay attention to the expiration date of "use after opening" in the product description, generally not more than 30 days after opening the bottle; do not "rub" dry on your clothes after washing your hands, prepare dry hand towels or dryers in advance.

Hand washing steps should be done correctly (Figure 8).
1) Wet your hands under running water.
2) Take an appropriate amount of hand sanitizer (soap) and apply it evenly to the entire palm, back of the hand, fingers and fingertips.
(3) carefully rub hands for at least 15 seconds, as follows: a. palms relative to each other, fingers together, rubbing each other; b. palms and hands along the back of the fingers rubbing each other, exchange; c. palms relative to each other, hands cross fingers rubbing each other; d. bend fingers so that the knuckles in the other hand palm rotating rubbing, exchange; e. right hand holding the left thumb rotating rubbing, exchange; f. will be five finger tips together in the palm of the other hand, rotating and rubbing, and exchanging.
4) Rinse hands thoroughly under running water.
5) Dry your hands and take an appropriate amount of hand lotion for skin care.


(C) diligent ventilation, maintain a clean living and working environment


Diligently open windows, more ventilation, ventilation 2 to 3 times a day, no less than 30 minutes each time, need to pay attention to the temperature difference between indoor and outdoor and cause colds and the adaptation of the population. Families with conditions can also use circulating air disinfection machines, which are recommended to be used with windows and doors closed. Air conditioning filters and filters should be cleaned and disinfected monthly. The disinfection method can be used with an effective chlorine content of 250mg/L chlorine disinfection solution sprayed until wet, the role of 30 minutes. The cleaning and disinfection methods for different environments can be referred to the relevant contents of the third, fourth, fifth and sixth parts of this chapter.



(1) Reduce unnecessary going out, especially during the Spring Festival, you should visit friends and relatives and gather less, cancel the plan of going out for travel and visiting relatives, and try to rest at home; avoid going to closed, airless public places and crowded places, such as: shopping malls, stations, theaters, Internet cafes, exhibition halls, etc.

(2) Please wear a mask when you go out. Please refer to "(1) Wearing a mask" in "I. General precautions" in this chapter.

(3) Wash your hands regularly. Hand washing can be found in "(2) Washing hands regularly" in this chapter "I. General preventive measures".

(4) diligent ventilation. For details, please refer to "(3) diligent ventilation" in "I. General preventive measures" of this chapter.

(5) When coughing or sneezing, cover your mouth and nose with tissues or clothing (Figure 9) and do not spit.


(6) Reduce sharing items with others, including toothbrushes, tableware, meals, drinks, towels, bath towels, bed sheets, etc. Regularly disinfect dishes, furniture, floors, etc., and dry clothes and blankets regularly.

(7) Do not touch, buy and eat wild animals (i.e., game); avoid markets that sell live animals (poultry, wildlife, etc.).

(8) Keep supplies at home such as thermometers, medical surgical masks or N95 masks, and household disinfection supplies.

(9) During the leave, eat lightly, pay attention to nutrition and exercise properly.

(10) If you have suspected symptoms such as fever, malaise, cough, sore throat, chest tightness, dyspnea, weakness, or diarrhea, go to the fever clinic of the nearest medical institution. Medical attention can be found in Chapter 2, "Symptoms, medical care, isolation and treatment", "2.
You can refer to the following table for the level of personal protection.



(1) Home environment

Ordinary families should have good ventilation indoors during disease epidemics, natural ventilation or mechanical ventilation. When opening windows in winter, attention needs to be paid to colds caused by large temperature differences between indoors and outdoors. After coming home, you should wash your hands with hand sanitizer and running water, or disinfect your hands with effective disinfectants such as iodophor, chlorine disinfectant and hydrogen peroxide disinfectant.


The floor, desktop, furniture and other object surfaces are cleaned well every day and disinfected regularly. A concentration of 250mg/L chlorine-containing disinfectant can be prepared for wiping; metal, electrical appliances and other non-corrosive resistant object surfaces are wiped with 75% alcohol; the disinfection action time should be no less than 15 minutes, and then wiped with water to remove residual disinfectant. Water cups, tableware and other utensils can be disinfected by boiling or circulating steam for 15 minutes after washing; or refer to the instructions to use the disinfection cupboard for disinfection. Cleaning tools can be disinfected by soaking in chlorine disinfectant with an effective chlorine content of 500mg/L for 30 minutes and then washing and drying. After a guest (health status unknown) visits, disinfect the relevant object surfaces in the room in a timely manner. Personal protection should be provided during disinfection by wearing latex or nitrile gloves, waterproof aprons (or sleeved raincoats instead), masks, etc., and washing hands promptly after disinfection. Confirm the expiration date and dilution ratio of the disinfectant, and mix it well.

When a family member shows suspicious symptoms, other family members should be isolated and sent to the doctor in a timely manner (see "2. Seeking medical attention" in "Chapter 2: Symptoms, medical attention, isolation, and treatment"). After consultation, disinfect the isolated room and contact items (e.g., living room floor, bathroom, furniture countertops, door handles, eating utensils, etc.).

When a patient with novel coronavirus infection is present in the home, final disinfection should be performed after the patient leaves (e.g., hospitalization, death, release from isolation, etc.). The final disinfection of the patient's home includes the floor and walls of the living room, tables, chairs and other furniture countertops, door handles, the patient's dining utensils, clothes, bedding and other household items, toys, bathrooms including toilets, etc. Terminal disinfection is usually done by professionals and carried out by the local Center for Disease Control and Prevention. Other family members are close contacts and should be under medical observation for 14 days.


(2) Private cars

Under daily circumstances, private cars do not need to disinfection treatment, in open places, do a good job of ventilation. When opening the windows in winter, you need to pay attention to the temperature difference between inside and outside the car, do not cause a cold. In the underground parking lot and other confined environment, it is recommended to close the windows, open the air conditioning internal circulation way to ventilation.

After entering a public place and returning to the vehicle, drivers and passengers are advised to use hand sanitizer for hand hygiene first. After having friends and relatives (health status unknown) aboard, promptly open the windows for ventilation and disinfect the relevant object surfaces in the vehicle by choosing a legal and effective disinfectant or disinfectant wipes for disinfection. Object surfaces can be disinfected with chlorine disinfectant, chlorine dioxide, etc. or disinfectant wipes. Hands and skin are recommended to choose effective disinfectants such as iodophor, chlorinated disinfectants and hydrogen peroxide disinfectants for hand and skin disinfection or quick-drying hand disinfectants for wiping and disinfection.

Those with suspicious symptoms (suspicious symptoms include fever, cough, sore throat, chest tightness, dyspnea, fatigue, nausea and vomiting, diarrhea, conjunctivitis, muscle aches, etc.) should wear a medical surgical mask when riding in a private car, try to keep a distance from people in the same car, do not turn on the air conditioning internal circulation, and open the windows moderately for ventilation. After a person with suspicious symptoms gets out of the car, quickly open the windows for ventilation and disinfect the surfaces of the objects they touch (door handles, steering wheels, windows, windshields, seats, etc.).

The final disinfection of the private car should be done promptly after the patient gets out of the car after riding in the private car with novel coronavirus infection. The scope of final disinfection for private cars includes object surfaces (seats, steering wheels, windows, door handles, etc.), air conditioning systems, and vomit. Chlorine dioxide is the recommended disinfectant of choice, and the car should be started and the air conditioning internal circulation turned on during disinfection treatment. The specific disinfection method is operated by professionals from local CDC agencies or qualified third parties, and the vehicle is not recommended to be used without disinfection treatment before. Other co-passengers are close contacts and should be under medical observation for 14 days.




