Should follow the State Council issued the "pneumonia mechanism issued [2020] No. 5" document requirements.

Work plan on community prevention and control of pneumonia outbreak of novel coronavirus infection (trial)
In order to implement the community-based prevention and control measures, guide the community to carry out the prevention and control of pneumonia outbreak of novel coronavirus infection in a scientific and orderly manner, detect cases early, effectively curb the spread and spread of the epidemic, and reduce the public health hazards caused by novel coronavirus infection, according to the "Prevention and Control of Infectious Diseases Law of the People's Republic of China", "Basic Medical Hygiene and Health Promotion Law of the People's Republic of China", "Emergency Public Health Emergency Regulations", "Emergency Plan for Public Health Emergencies", "Pneumonia Case Surveillance Program for Novel Coronavirus Infection" and other relevant documents, this work plan is formulated.
I. Work requirements
(a) Party and government-led, community mobilization, the implementation of grid-based, carpet management, the prevention and control measures to the letter.
(B) the implementation of the "early detection, early reporting, early isolation, early diagnosis, early treatment" principle, and do a good job in the community new coronavirus infection pneumonia outbreak detection, prevention and control and emergency response work.
II. Relevant definitions
(i) Community
Community" in this program refers to urban and rural communities (i.e. urban communities and villages) under the jurisdiction of street offices or township people's governments.
(B) community outbreak division
1. No cases were found in the community. It means that no confirmed cases of pneumonia with novel coronavirus infection were found among the community residents.
2. There are cases or outbreaks in the community.
A case in the community is defined as the presence of one confirmed case of pneumonia with novel coronavirus infection in a community population that has not yet had a sequel case.
An outbreak is defined as the discovery of 2 or more confirmed cases in a small area (e.g., a household, a construction site, the same unit in a building, etc.) within 14 days, with the possibility of interpersonal transmission between cases due to close contact or the possibility of infection due to co-exposure.
3. Community transmission outbreak. In the community, there are two or more cases of infection of unknown origin within 14 days, or outbreaks of a large number and size, with a continuous trend of transmission.
(C) the epidemic point, the division of the epidemic area
1. Epidemic site
In the event of a case or outbreak in the community, the area where the case may have contaminated is identified as an outbreak site. In principle, places visited by the patient 3 days before the onset of the disease until the isolation and treatment, places where the patient stays for more than 1 hour and where the space is small and poorly ventilated should be classified as an outbreak site for management. An outbreak site is generally defined as one or several households, one or several offices, train or bus cars, the same flight, the same ward, the same building, etc.
2. Infected areas
If there is a community-transmitted outbreak, the community may be identified as an infected area according to the relevant provisions of the Law of the People's Republic of China on the Prevention and Control of Infectious Diseases.
(iv) close contacts
With the case after the onset of one of the following exposure scenarios, but did not take effective protection.
1. people who live, study, work with the case, or otherwise have close contact, such as working in close proximity to the case or sharing the same classroom or living in the same house as the case.
2. medical staff, family members or other persons who have similar close contact with the case, such as direct treatment and care of the case, visiting the patient or staying in the confined environment where the case is located, other patients and their companions in the same ward of the case.
3. travel on the same means of transport as the case and have close contact with personnel, including those who have cared for the patient on the transport, the patient's fellow passengers (family members, colleagues, friends, etc.), and other passengers and crew members found to be in close contact with the patient after investigation and assessment.
4. The site investigator investigates and then evaluates the personnel who are deemed to be in contact with other close contacts.
Third, community prevention and control strategies and measures
(i) No cases found in the community
Implementing the strategy of "external prevention and importation", specific measures include organizational mobilization, health education, information, management of returnees from infected areas, environmental health management, and material preparation.
1.Organizational mobilization
Communities should establish an organizational system for the prevention and control of pneumonia outbreaks of new coronavirus infections, with street (township) and community (village) cadres, community health service centers and family doctors as the main focus, and encourage the participation of residents and volunteers to form a combination of full-time and part-time work teams, implement grid-based, carpet management, responsibility for the implementation of full coverage of the community (village), building (natural village), family, and the implementation of prevention and control Measures.
2. Health education
Make full use of a variety of means to carry out targeted pneumonia prevention and control knowledge of new coronavirus infection, actively advocate hygiene, eliminate bad habits, abandon littering, spitting and other uncivilized behavior, to create "everyone is the first person responsible for their own health" "my health I am in charge "The good atmosphere. Make the public fully understand the health knowledge, grasp the key points of protection, develop hand hygiene, more ventilation, keep clean good habits, reduce travel, avoid attending rallies, parties, take public transportation or go to crowded places to do a good job of protection, wear a mask, avoid contact with animals (especially wild animals), birds or their droppings.
3．Information
Disseminate information to the public about medical consultation; those with respiratory symptoms without fever go to community health protection centers (township health centers), those with fever go to fever clinics, and those with novel coronavirus infections go to sentinel hospitals. Daily information on local and local community outbreaks is released to suggest travel and travel risks.
4. Management of returnees from infected areas
Communities should issue notices requiring that people returning from infected areas should immediately register at their village branch or community and go to the local health center or village doctor or community health service center for medical checkups twice a day, while taking the initiative to self-isolate for 14 days. All those returning from infected areas with febrile respiratory symptoms should promptly seek medical clearance nearby and be isolated at home or at a government-designated location or hospital as required; their close contacts should also immediately self-isolate at home or at a locally designated location. During the isolation period, please keep in touch with local medical personnel or the CDC for follow-up observation.
5. Environmental health management
The community carries out comprehensive vector-biological prevention and control, mainly environmental remediation, supplemented by drug disinfection, and carries out sanitary cleaning of key places such as residential neighborhoods, garbage transfer stations and construction sites, disposes of garbage and dirt, and eliminates the breeding environment for rodents, cockroaches, mosquitoes, flies and other vector-biological organisms. Timely organization of comprehensive vector control and extermination to effectively reduce the density of vector organisms.
6. Material preparation
Communities and families stock up on essential prevention and control items and supplies, such as thermometers, masks, disinfection supplies, etc.
(ii) The emergence of cases or outbreaks in the community
The strategy of "internal prevention of spread and external prevention of export" includes the six measures mentioned above, as well as close contact management and disinfection.
7. Close contact management
Give full play to the role of community preventive health doctors, family contracted doctors, community cadres and other grid managers to conduct screening and implement home or centralized medical observation of close contacts of confirmed cases of pneumonia with novel coronavirus infection, and centralized observation sites should be clearly defined where available. Daily follow-up visits to the health status of close contacts, instructing the observation subjects to monitor changes in their own situation more sensitively and keep records. Make preparations for isolation control and transfer of patients to designated hospitals, etc.
8. Disinfection
The community should assist the CDC to disinfect the case homes, building units, unit offices, conference rooms and other epidemic points, as well as clean and disinfected public places.
(iii) Community-transmitted epidemics
The strategy of "internal prevention of spread and external prevention of export" includes the 8 measures mentioned above, as well as the 2 measures of blocking the infected area and restricting the gathering of people.
9. Blockade of infected areas: Communities classified as infected areas may take measures to blockade the infected areas if necessary, restrict the access of people, and temporarily requisition houses and transportation.
10. Restrict the gathering of people: Restrict or stop activities such as fairs, rallies and other gatherings of people in the community, and close public baths, spas, theaters, Internet cafes, KTVs, shopping malls and other public places. If necessary, suspend work, business and classes.




(1) Public places with heavy flow of people and high mobility

Suitable for shopping malls, restaurants, cinemas, KTV, Internet cafes, public baths, gymnasiums, exhibition halls, railway stations, subway stations, airports, bus stations and other public places.

Staff in public places should monitor their own health and not go to work with illness if they have suspicious symptoms of novel coronavirus infection (such as fever, cough, sore throat, chest tightness, difficulty in breathing, mild nausea, weakness, slightly poor spirit, nausea and vomiting, diarrhea, headache, heartburn, conjunctivitis, mild muscle pain in the limbs or lower back, etc.). If suspicious symptoms of novel coronavirus infection are detected, staff should ask them to leave or contact the hospital promptly.

Public use items and public contact items or parts should be cleaned and disinfected regularly.

Maintain air circulation in public places. Ensure that the air conditioning system or exhaust fan is functioning properly, clean the air conditioning filter regularly, and strengthen the ventilation of open windows.

Washrooms should be equipped with sufficient hand sanitizer to ensure that water supply facilities such as faucets are working properly. Disinfect sanitary facilities in a timely manner and use air disinfection spray to disinfect the air when necessary.

Keep the environment clean and clear the garbage in time.

In areas where the disease is endemic, the public should minimize visits to public places, especially avoiding places with heavy traffic and poor air circulation.

(2) Workplace

Commuting to and from work

Wear disposable medical masks correctly. Try not to take public transportation, it is recommended to walk, ride or take private cars or shuttles to and from work. If you have to take public transportation, public trams are preferred. Be sure to wear a mask throughout the journey. Avoid touching objects in the car with your hands during the journey. When you leave work, wash your hands and wear a disposable medical mask, and when you return home, wash your hands after removing the mask. Use disinfectant wipes or 75% alcohol to wipe your cell phone and keys. Keep your home ventilated and hygienically clean, and avoid multi-person gatherings.

Disinfection of public areas and air conditioners

Public areas such as foyers, hallways, conference rooms, elevators, stairs, and restrooms must be disinfected daily, using spray disinfection whenever possible. The cleaning utensils used in each area should be separated to avoid mixing. In addition to daily routine cleaning and disinfection, bathrooms should be disinfected regularly and air disinfection should be carried out by spray.

Central air conditioning system fan coils in normal use, regular disinfection of the air supply and return air outlets. If there is an epidemic, do not stop the fan operation, should be closed after the evacuation of personnel, the exhaust branch, run for a period of time to shut down the fresh air exhaust system, while disinfection. All-air system with return air should be completely closed the return air to ensure that the system runs with all fresh air.

During the epidemic prevention period, do hand hygiene before and after taking off masks, put discarded masks in the garbage cans, and disinfect the garbage cans twice a day with 75% alcohol or chlorine-containing disinfectant.

Entry work and elevator ride

Before entering the office building, you should take a temperature test and go to the bathroom to wash your hands. If your body temperature exceeds 37.2℃, please do not enter the building to work, and go home to observe and rest, or go to the hospital if necessary.

The frequency of elevator rides should be reduced, and passengers on low floors can take the stairs on foot. Carry toilet paper (gloves) with you, and press the elevator button through the toilet paper (gloves). Dispose of the toilet paper (gloves) properly after use. Stand on both sides of the hall door while waiting for the elevator, do not get too close to the hall door, and do not touch the passengers coming out of the elevator car face to face. After the passenger comes out of the car, press the button outside the elevator hall to prevent the elevator from closing and wait for a moment before entering the elevator. Avoid riding in the elevator with more than one stranger. Passengers who have enough time can wait patiently for the next elevator. Try not to use the elevator to carry things and reduce the contact between your belongings and the elevator car. Wash and disinfect your hands promptly after riding in the elevator.

Elevator units should pay attention to the health of passengers, feverish people have a need to take the elevator (such as hospitals), and conditions allow, can be set up independently a special elevator for feverish people, and strengthen the maintenance and control of the elevator. For elevators with ventilation fans installed in the cabin, the ventilation fans should be kept open for a long time. For elevators without ventilation fans installed in the cabin, the cabin doors can be opened regularly for ventilation in combination with disinfection work. Each ventilation time should be at least 10 minutes. During a pneumonia epidemic, local disinfection (such as elevator key panels) and full disinfection can be alternated. If a confirmed or suspected case is found to have ridden in an elevator, the elevator operation should be stopped immediately and disposed of in accordance with the requirements of the health prevention department.

Elevator disinfection work should be carried out by trained personnel with certain knowledge of disinfection, and accompanied by elevator maintenance personnel. Personnel should wear work clothes, gloves, work shoes, masks, hats, goggles, etc. when necessary. And prepare disinfection medicine and items, clean rags, spray cans, warning signs, mops, etc. Before starting disinfection, the elevator should first be stopped and warning signs set. Clean the elevator thoroughly and then disinfect it. If ultraviolet light is used for disinfection, the car door should be closed and the car should be irradiated by ultraviolet light for not less than half an hour. If disinfectant is used, a clean rag can be dipped into the disinfectant and wiped on the button panel, handrail and other parts frequently touched by passengers. Other parts such as hall door and car wall can be sprayed and coated with a small amount of spraying bottle. After disinfection for a specified period of time, wring out the wet rag and wipe the key panel and other parts to avoid corrosion of the elevator electronic components by the disinfectant. Other parts can be removed with a wet rag to avoid residual disinfectant damage to human body. After disinfection is completed, resume normal operation of the elevator, retrieve the warning sign, bring back the tools and make records of the elevator cleaning and disinfection. Staff take off protective equipment and bring it back in bags for disposal and personnel for sanitary disposal.

Inside the office

Keep the office area clean, it is recommended to ventilate 3 times a day for 20-30 minutes each time, and pay attention to keeping warm when ventilating. Maintain a distance of more than 1 meter between people, and wear a mask when working with multiple people and entering the bathroom. Maintain diligent hand washing, drink more water, and insist on strict hand washing before eating and after toileting in accordance with the six-step method.

Daily disinfection of shared items in the office, especially common contact areas, e.g., kettles, phones, printers, etc. Disinfecting wipes or 75% alcohol wipes can be used. This can be increased to four times if used frequently. When working in the office, wash hands before and after passing paper documents, and wear a mask when passing documents.

Participation in conferences and official visits

Use telephone and video conferencing as much as possible to reduce centralized meetings. During face-to-face meetings, control the length of the meeting and recommend that all participants wear masks and wash their hands to disinfect before entering the meeting room. Separate meeting participants by more than 1 meter. When the meeting is too long, open the window for ventilation once. After the meeting, the venue and furniture must be disinfected. It is recommended to disinfect teaware by soaking in boiling water.

Visitors are required to wear a mask. Before entering the office building, first conduct a temperature test, and introduce any history of Lakeland exposure and symptoms such as fever, cough and breathlessness. No such conditions and normal body temperature conditions, before entering the building for public work. Receive outsiders on both sides to wear masks.

Canteen meals

Adopt staggered meals. It is recommended that employees who are in a position to do so bring their own lunch boxes and bring them back to the office for meals after purchase to avoid crowding. The restaurant is disinfected once a day, and tables and chairs are disinfected after use. Disinfection of tableware is required at high temperature. Keep the operation room clean and dry, strictly prohibit the mixing of raw food and cooked food supplies, and avoid raw meat. It is recommended that nutritious meals be prepared, light and palatable.

Official Travel

Travelers must wear masks to travel and avoid dense crowds. Maintain a distance of more than 1 meter from human contact and avoid prolonged stay in public places.

It is recommended that the interior and door handles of the shuttle bus be wiped with 75% alcohol once a day when traveling. The shuttle bus must wear a mask, and it is recommended that the shuttle bus be wiped with 75% alcohol to disinfect the interior and door handles after use.

Logisticians

Service personnel, security personnel and cleaning personnel must wear masks when working and keep a safe distance from people. Canteen procurement staff or supply staff must wear masks and disposable rubber gloves to avoid direct hand contact with meat and poultry raw materials, and wash hands and disinfect after removing gloves. Cleaning staff must wear disposable rubber gloves when working, and wash their hands after work to disinfect. Security personnel shall wear masks and carefully inquire and register the status of outsiders, and report any abnormalities in a timely manner.

(3) Public transportation

See "Technical Guidelines for Public Transport Disinfection Operations".

Public transport disinfection operation technical guide

I. Scope
This guideline applies to the prevention and control of infection on public transport such as airplanes, trains, long and short-distance buses, buses, subways and ships in normal operation during the epidemic of pneumonia with novel coronavirus infection, including technical operations such as disinfection taken by staff and travelers on public transport.
Second, the staff operating guidelines
During an epidemic of novel coronavirus infection pneumonia, public transport staff need to carry out the following tasks.
(A) do a good job of object surface disinfection. Under daily circumstances, the environment on public transportation should be kept clean and sanitary, and preventive disinfection measures should be taken; after the operation of public transportation such as airplanes, trains, subways, buses and ships, internal object surfaces (such as the inside of the body, driver's steering wheel, handrails inside the car, tables and chairs, etc.) should be sprayed or wiped with chlorine disinfectant containing 250 to 500 mg/L of effective chlorine, or effective of disinfectant wipes for wiping; seat covers and other textiles should be kept clean and regularly washed and disinfected.
When vomiting occurs on public transportation, disinfectants (such as chlorinated disinfectants) or disinfectant dry towels should be used immediately to cover the vomit and disinfect the surface of the object after removing the vomit, and then use disinfectants such as Neosporin to disinfect the surface of the object.
When there are suspected or confirmed cases, under the guidance of professionals, the contaminants should be completely removed before disinfection when there are visible contaminants; when there are no visible contaminants, 1000mg/L chlorine disinfectant or 500mg/L chlorine dioxide disinfectant can be wiped or sprayed for disinfection. The ground disinfection is sprayed once from the outside to the inside, with a spray volume of 100-300ml/㎡, and then repeatedly sprayed once from the inside to the outside after the indoor disinfection is completed. The disinfection time should be no less than 30 minutes.
(B) strengthen the ventilation and air exchange. Under daily circumstances, natural ventilation or mechanical ventilation can be used. Aircraft, high-speed trains, subways and other relatively confined environments, it is recommended that the appropriate increase in air conditioning for air power to improve the number of air changes, and pay attention to regular cleaning and treatment of air conditioning filters; short-distance buses, buses and other public transport with open windows, when available, windows can be opened at low speed, but also during the stop and open the windows to maintain air circulation.
When there are suspected or confirmed cases, disinfectants such as peroxyacetic acid, chlorine-containing disinfectants, chlorine dioxide and hydrogen peroxide are selected under unmanned conditions under the guidance of professionals, using the ultra-low volume spray method.
(iii) Pay attention to personal protection. Under daily circumstances, it is recommended that staff wear medical surgical masks (or other higher level masks) and gloves; single-use gloves should not be reused, other reused gloves must be cleaned and disinfected daily, either by circulating steam or boiling for 30 minutes, or by first soaking in 500mg/L chlorine-containing disinfectant for 30 minutes, and then routine cleaning is sufficient. When there are suspected or confirmed cases, personal protection is carried out under the guidance of professionals.
(iv) Hand hygiene. Hand hygiene measures should be strengthened and hand hygiene should be performed by staff at all times. Effective alcohol-containing quick-drying hand sanitizers are available. Under special conditions, hand sanitizers containing chlorine or hydrogen peroxide may also be used; hand sanitizers should be used to wash hands under running water when there are contaminants visible to the naked eye, and then disinfected.
(v) Establishment of an emergency area. It is recommended that emergency areas be set up on public transportation, such as the back three rows of seats on airplanes, trains, and buses, where suspected or confirmed cases can be temporarily isolated when they appear.
(vi) Health education. Always pay attention to the prevention and control of health education on public transport.
Three, travelers operating guidelines
(a) Wear masks and gloves. Travelers taking public transportation, it is recommended to wear medical surgical masks (or other higher level masks), and discarded in time at the end of the trip. Travelers who have the option to wear gloves, single-use gloves can not be reused, other reuse gloves need to pay attention to cleaning and disinfection, can circulate steam or boiling disinfection for 30 minutes, or first soak in 500mg / L of chlorine disinfectant for 30 minutes, and then routine cleaning can be.
(ii) Hand hygiene. Pay attention to hand hygiene, travelers should enhance hand hygiene during the trip, and hand hygiene is required after the trip. Effective alcohol-containing quick-drying hand sanitizer can be used, and under special conditions, chlorine-containing or hydrogen peroxide hand sanitizer can also be used; hand sanitizer should be used to wash hands under running water when there are contaminants visible to the naked eye, and then disinfected.
(C) pay attention to maintain distance. Travelers on public transport, when available, try to keep a certain distance between each other.
(iv) Actively cooperate with the staff. In daily situations, listen to the arrangements of public transportation staff and do personal protection. When a suspected or confirmed case appears, listen to the staff's instructions, promptly self-isolate, follow the arrangements for screening and testing, and do not leave privately.



(1) Schools and child care institutions

1) Strengthen the ventilation of the teaching and living environment (e.g. classrooms, music rooms, dance rooms, reading rooms, nursery rooms, dormitories, teaching and research rooms) in schools and childcare institutions to maintain air circulation and clean indoor and outdoor environmental hygiene. Avoid holding school-wide or garden-wide indoor assemblies and other activities.
(2) Implement hand hygiene, set up sufficient hand-washing taps, and equip hand sanitizer or soap for teachers and students to use; childcare institutions are implemented daily by caregivers for children to wash their hands regularly. Promote the correct hand washing technique.
3) To strengthen preventive disinfection, public classroom places (such as music rooms, dance rooms, computer rooms) are recommended for a group of students to go in and disinfect once. Classroom desks, chairs, and other surfaces with high human contact can be disinfected by spraying or wiping with a chlorine-containing disinfectant with an effective chlorine level of 250-500 mg/L for 30 minutes and then washing with water. For objects that are not resistant to corrosion, 75% alcohol or 0.1% benzalkonium bromide (Neosporin) can be used for wiping and disinfection, and safety should be observed when using it. For large areas of floors and walls, chlorine disinfectant with an effective chlorine level of 250-500 mg/L can be sprayed from the inside out, the amount of spraying should be wet and without dripping, and the action time should be not less than 30 minutes.
(4) Carry out various forms of health education in schools and childcare institutions to popularize the knowledge of prevention and control of respiratory infectious diseases. Establish a sound mechanism for contacting schools, parents, students and medical institutions, improve information collection and reporting channels, and ensure the smooth flow of information.
(5) Strengthen health monitoring and material stockpiling. To have a person to implement the morning and afternoon checkups, do a good job of tracking the absence from school due to illness and the registration of the cause of the disease, and report in a timely manner when abnormalities such as an unusual increase in cases of respiratory infectious diseases are detected. Strengthen the stockpile of protective supplies, the school nurse's office to stock a certain number of medical masks, disposable gloves, hand sanitizer and cold medicine.
(6) to carry out various forms of health education and popularize the knowledge of prevention and control of respiratory infectious diseases.
(7) When symptoms such as fever, malaise, dry cough and chest tightness occur, you should immediately wear a mask and seek medical attention in a timely manner to avoid attending classes with illness. When a student or teacher is diagnosed with novel coronavirus infection, his or her close contacts should be placed under medical observation for 14 days. Schools and child care institutions are responsible for home visits to contact students who have left school or school to learn about their daily health status. Implement a daily and zero reporting system according to the requirements of disease prevention and control agencies to keep track of the daily increase or decrease of students with cases. Cooperate with the health and wellness department to handle the epidemic and other tasks.

(2) Nursing homes

During the disease epidemic, it is recommended that the nursing home implement closed management, in principle, do not receive visits from outsiders, the elderly can not leave the hospital to go out, no longer accept new elderly residents, the elderly who must go out should be closely observed after returning to the nursing home.

Daily preventive measures:

(1) Ensure that staff and nursing seniors master personal protective measures, hand hygiene requirements, sanitation and health habits to prevent novel coronavirus pneumonia, avoid sharing personal belongings, pay attention to ventilation, and implement disinfection measures.
2) Establish health records of the elderly and staff, and conduct daily morning checkups and health registration.
(3) Once the staff appear fever, cough, mild nausea, weakness, slightly poor mental, nausea and vomiting, diarrhea, headache, panic, chest tightness, conjunctivitis, mild limb or back muscle pain and other suspicious symptoms of new coronavirus infection, should immediately stop working and go to the hospital for medical examination and investigation, to exclude new coronavirus infection and other infectious diseases before re-entering the workplace.
(4) Establish a registration system for visitors. If visitors have suspicious symptoms of novel coronavirus infection, their visits should be refused. All foreign visitors should wear medical surgical masks. Those with suspicious symptoms should refuse to visit.
(5) ventilation to keep the indoor air fresh. Open the windows for at least 30 minutes every half day; if it is not suitable to open the windows for ventilation, mechanical ventilation equipment should be equipped to ensure that there is no indoor odor; during the epidemic season of respiratory infectious diseases, indoor ventilation should be strengthened, and if necessary, it is appropriate to use circulating air disinfection machines and other air disinfection; regularly clean and disinfect the air conditioning ventilation system. When opening windows in winter, attention should be paid to avoid colds caused by the large difference between indoor and outdoor temperatures.
(6) Restrooms should be equipped with sufficient hand sanitizer, hand towels or hand dryers to ensure that water supply facilities such as faucets work properly. Advocate the elderly to develop the good habit of washing their hands frequently. Hand cream can be placed by the sink to make it easy to apply after washing hands.
7) Ensure that the environment is clean and sanitary. Frequently dry the bedding and clothes of the elderly. Wipe the tables, chairs and surfaces of objects in the activity room with clean water once a day and disinfect them once or twice a week; wipe the floor, window sills, bedside tables and bed fences in the bedroom with clean water once a day; wipe the door handles, faucets, commode handrails and commode tank buttons with clean water once a day and disinfect them once or twice a week.
(8) Prepare isolation rooms for the isolation and treatment of future elderly with suspected symptoms. The elderly with symptoms should be isolated in time to avoid transmission to other elderly. The isolation room should be set in a single room that is not densely populated, well ventilated, with a separate bathroom, and downwind of the nursing home. Use independent air conditioning as much as possible, if you need to use central air conditioning, the new air system should be turned off. The domestic garbage in the isolation area should be collected uniformly and treated as medical waste.

If an elderly person in a nursing home has suspicious symptoms such as fever, cough, mild nausea, weakness, slightly poor mental health, nausea and vomiting, diarrhea, headache, panic, chest tightness, conjunctivitis, mild muscle pain in the limbs or lower back, the nursing home should also take the following measures:

(1) The elderly single room to isolate themselves and avoid close contact with other people.
(2) Assessment of their health status by medical personnel, depending on the condition of the disease sent to medical institutions for medical treatment, should wear a medical surgical mask on the way to medical treatment, and try to avoid taking public transportation.
(3) promptly contact the local community health agency or the CDC for guidance and assistance with related investigations and dispositions. Those who have had close contact with a person with suspected symptoms without effective protection should be registered immediately and placed under medical observation.
4) Suspension of visitation activities.
5) Reduce unnecessary gatherings, dinners and other group activities, and do not arrange centralized meals.
(6) If an elderly person with suspicious symptoms is diagnosed with novel coronavirus pneumonia, his or her close contacts should be placed under medical observation for 14 days. After the patient leaves (e.g., hospitalization, death, etc.), final disinfection of the residence should be performed promptly. The specific disinfection method should be operated or directed by professionals from the local CDC agency or a qualified third party. The residence is not recommended for use without disinfection.

(3) farmers' markets, birds, flowers, insects and fish markets, live poultry (livestock) trading markets

1）Keep the workplace clean and hygienic and air circulation, daily cleaning and disinfection. To clean mainly, disinfection as a supplement. It is recommended that the market operators selling live animals (poultry, seafood, wild animals, etc.) after the close of business each day, to do "three clean and one disinfection" - clear: the stall scales, offal, feces, chicken feathers, scraps, other garbage and other dirt clean; clean. Use water to clean the countertop, ground, drainage ditch and ground around the store; disinfection: mainly disinfect the cleaned countertop, slaughtering tools, cutting board utensils, cages, stall ground; cleaning: rinse the disinfected utensils, countertop, cutting board, etc. with clean water. In addition, it is recommended that the market be cleaned regularly, emptied of any live poultry (livestock) stockpile; thoroughly remove feces, garbage and debris; dredge sewers, and clean the stall floor, walls, and the environment around the store; and thoroughly disinfect after a comprehensive cleaning.
When disinfecting, for the surface of objects with more human contact, use 500mg/L chlorine-containing disinfectant for spraying or wiping disinfection, and then wash with water after 30 minutes of action. For objects that are not resistant to corrosion, 75% alcohol or 0.1% benzalkonium bromide (Neosporin) can be used for wiping and disinfection, and safety should be observed when using it. For large areas of floors and walls, a chlorine disinfectant solution with an effective chlorine level of 500-1000mg/L can be used for spraying, the amount of spraying should be wet and without dripping, and the action time should be not less than 30 minutes.
(2) Garbage and feces should be concentrated for harmless treatment, and garbage transporters and hand-push garbage collection vehicles should be stored and transported in an airtight manner to improve garbage collection, transportation and treatment. Clean garbage daily to reduce the density of flies.
(3) strengthen vector biological control. Install and implement anti-rodent, anti-mosquito and anti-fly facilities for use, improve the farmers' market vector biological control facilities; market ground hard bottom, ditches to be dredged, potholes ground to be filled, wall holes and cracks to be plugged and wiped, sewers and ditches to be sealed, sewer openings to install anti-rodent facilities; processing, sales, storage of directly imported food premises rooms to be equipped with screens, screen doors, wind curtain machines, screen covers, glass cabinets and other anti-fly facilities;. In and around the market to be placed in accordance with the relevant requirements of poisonous rodent house, regularly put poisonous rodent bait to reduce rodent density; regular inspections to remove all types of small containers of stagnant water, check the market flower store stagnant water to reduce the breeding of mosquitoes and insects.
4) Both shopping at the market and market staff need to wear masks, and try to wear medical masks or medical surgical masks. Keep a safe distance of more than 1 meter when interacting with others in the market; stay away from wild animals. Do not touch, buy and eat wild animals and try to avoid stalls selling live poultry, wild animals, etc.






