In this outbreak of novel coronavirus pneumonia, many of the most seriously ill patients are middle-aged and elderly. For elderly people with underlying diseases, once infected, they are very prone to critical illness, multi-organ failure and even death, so they should be better protected.

The respiratory tract of the elderly is more sensitive and fragile, and products that are less irritating to the respiratory tract of the elderly should be chosen for disinfection. Preferably, use 75% alcohol wipes or alcohol wipes. You can also use 84 disinfectant or other chlorine-based disinfectants to wipe down furniture and floors. However, if the elderly are allergic to chlorine or suffer from respiratory irritation, they should not use it. In addition, a variety of smoked white wine, vinegar, moxibustion and other "prescriptions" spread on the Internet can not achieve the effect of disinfection, and may even cause respiratory discomfort. These methods are equivalent to artificially aggravating indoor air pollution. For the elderly with sensitive respiratory tract or a history of asthma, it is likely to induce respiratory disease and is not recommended.

The elderly should be allowed to stay in the appropriate room temperature to avoid other adverse effects on the body caused by too low or too high room temperature. At the same time, attention should be paid to opening windows regularly to improve indoor air quality and reduce the amount of viruses that may be present. It is recommended to increase the number of ventilation times and reduce the ventilation time, while paying attention to keeping warm.

Special times advocate frequent hand washing to prevent viral infections. However, elderly people have degenerated sebaceous gland function and are prone to dryness, so washing hands regularly is bound to aggravate chapped skin. It is recommended that hand cream be placed by the sink so that they can apply it after washing their hands.

Older adults love to walk around during the New Year holidays. This also increases their risk of being exposed to the virus. An infection in the elderly could lead to serious consequences, so during an outbreak, do not gather for meals or multiple gatherings, and do not host friends or relatives who may be from key outbreak areas. If special needs arise, visit and care for the elderly at home. Visitors should wear masks on the road, take off their coats, change their shoes, wash their hands at the door, and disinfect anything they bring with alcohol before doing anything else to avoid long-term homebound frail seniors being infected by outside visitors.

Various localities have also introduced various policies to reduce the number of elderly people going out, for example, Sichuan Province recently issued a notice requiring all mahjong parlors to suspend operations. It is recommended to spend more time with the elderly at home during the Spring Festival and to actively persuade them to reduce unnecessary going out activities. If they must go out, help them wear the right mask. Ordinary cotton masks have no protective effect. It is recommended that medical surgical masks be used as a priority, followed by medical care masks. However, the use of protective masks such as N95 or KN95 is not recommended for the elderly. These masks have a high respiratory resistance, and after long-term wear, symptoms such as chest tightness, shortness of breath and breathlessness can easily occur, and in serious cases, they can even lead to heart failure.

Seniors should try not to use crowded public transportation when traveling. It is best to walk, take a taxi or have a family member drive them. It is recommended to avoid crowds and choose places with fewer people and good ventilation, such as wearing a mask to walk in a park or outdoors. When you see someone you know, don't take off your mask and keep a distance of more than 1 meter to say hello. For seniors who like to visit food markets, three "don'ts" should be advised: don't go to markets that are not formal and have inadequate disinfection measures; don't buy poultry and seafood from unknown sources; and don't touch live poultry unprotected. Although no formal meat and seafood products have been found to transmit the virus, it is important to note that both meat and eggs must be cooked before eating. Many older adults are frugal and may use masks repeatedly. Be sure to advise that disposable medical masks should only be used once and teach older adults the proper way to put on and take off the mask. For more information, see "(1) Wearing a mask" in Chapter 3, "1. Universal precautions.

During the epidemic, it is recommended that older adults should start with a balanced diet. If there are no special dietary contraindications for the elderly, the intake of high-quality protein (eggs, soy products, fish, etc.), fresh vegetables and seasonal fruits can all be increased appropriately. However, in fact, many elderly people themselves suffer from a variety of diseases, the function of the whole body organs decreases, coupled with the usual chewing and swallowing function decreases, it is difficult to achieve the daily caloric and nutritional needs, resulting in wasting and malnutrition, thus the immune function decreases and more easily infected with viruses. Therefore, the elderly must properly improve their nutritional reserves through proper nutritional supplementation. Given that older adults have limited mobility and sometimes find it difficult to prepare nutritionally complete foods, they can also choose to take oral nutritional supplements for easier, convenient and safe nutritional supplementation. You can choose one of each of the three types of nutritional supplements and use them together: (1) oral whole nutritional supplements; (2) multivitamin-mineral supplements; and (3) high-quality protein supplements.

Some elderly people are easily misled by marketing rumors and buy some so-called "anti-viral" foods. In fact, all foods and supplements on the market that claim to prevent viruses lack clinical evidence, such as garlic, mushrooms, strawberries, red wine, lactoferrin, etc. Although they have some nutritional value to the human body, they are not anti-viral. However, like strawberries such as a balanced nutritional fruit in season, if the elderly "like", eat more is good.

If you have to go to the hospital, it is important that family members as well as the elderly are protected before going to the hospital. Wear a mask and wash your hands promptly. While in the hospital, be careful not to touch the outside of the mask, don't touch it, and wash your hands after taking off the mask. Also be careful to protect others by keeping your distance from people and remembering to block with your elbows when sneezing and coughing.




Children are also one of the susceptible groups, and the main transmission routes of infection are droplets and contact. Conjunctival transmission has also been reported, so infants and children should be more protected.

Infants cannot wear masks, so passive protection is the norm for infants under 1 year of age. Infants need to be dressed appropriately and not overly warmed or cooled. Do not feed your child after trying or chewing food with your mouth (including not feeding your child after blowing on cool food with your mouth) and do not share utensils with your child. Be sure to disinfect your child's belongings, toys and utensils regularly. If unnecessary, try to go out without your child, especially not to public places or confined spaces; try not to take public transportation when you go out and stay as far away from other people as possible (keep a distance of at least 1 meter). Wash your hands carefully before playing with your child. Parents should change their clothes and wash their hands before holding their children after coming home from a trip. The home should be regularly ventilated, and when it is ventilated, the child can be moved to another room to avoid catching a cold.

Caregivers need to take the initiative to wear a mask, do not kiss the baby, and do not cough, sneeze, or exhale into the baby. If you have to cough or sneeze be sure to cover your mouth and nose with a tissue (if it is too late to use a tissue, then apply your arm to completely cover your mouth and nose and then wash your arm thoroughly) and throw the contaminated tissue into a closed bin (bucket) immediately and wash your hands carefully with running water. Parents who have respiratory illnesses or symptoms such as fever, runny nose, coughing and sneezing should also wear a mask at home and isolate themselves properly at home.

Children should avoid going outside during this novel coronavirus pneumonia epidemic; if they must go outside, they should wear a mask when they go out, and they should wear a mask in hospitals, confined spaces, and crowded places, but not in ventilated spaces with low population density. In addition, children should be instructed to keep a distance of more than 1 meter from other people in confined spaces and crowded places; develop good hygiene habits, do not touch everywhere, and do not touch or rub the mouth, nose, eyes and other parts with unclean hands. The method of wearing mask and precautions can be found in the section of "(1) Wearing Mask" in Chapter 3 "1. General Precautions".

For children who do not like to wear masks, first of all, parents should buy disposable medical masks for children that are suitable for children, these masks will have some patterns or colors that are more acceptable to children. For younger children, parents can play role-playing, games and stories, and wear them together with the child in front of a mirror, and don't rush at first, but try a few more times to make the child feel less resistant and unfamiliar with the mask. When wearing the mask, help the child adjust the position of the mask to make the child more comfortable and less resistant. If children are unable to wear a mask, they should stay at home as much as possible, reduce going out, practice good hand hygiene, develop good and safe eating habits, and have parents do a good job of personal protection and home cleaning and disinfection ventilation to indirectly protect their children.

After children go home and take off their clothes, if there are conditions, they can use ultraviolet light or alcohol to spray their coats; if there are no such conditions, they can also take off their clothes and put them in a fixed position and change their shoes after entering the house. Then the child should be guided to wash hands carefully, hand washing methods and precautions can be found in the universal precautions section; after hand washing is completed, the face can be washed, and if the child cooperates, the nasal cavity can be washed and the mouth rinsed, and the mouth rinsed with either light salt water or water, and the child can spit it out after rinsing. However, it is worth noting that ultraviolet light can cause damage to the skin and eyes, and the ozone produced can also stimulate the respiratory tract, causing sore throat, chest tightness and coughing, which can also lead to dizziness and headache, so all people must leave the disinfection room during UV irradiation to avoid damage, and should be ventilated for some time after disinfection. In addition, the disinfection area of home UV disinfection lamps is related to their power.

Children may be seen in the emergency room if they present with fever symptoms at 39°C. ①Infants under 3 months old with a temperature >40℃ should be seen in the hospital promptly. ②Infants 3 to 6 months old, if their body temperature is below 38℃ and they eat milk and respond mentally as usual, they can monitor their body temperature and observe the general condition of the infant before considering whether to go to the hospital; if their body temperature exceeds 38℃, they should seek medical attention at any time; even if they do not have the above-mentioned conditions, but have fever for more than 24 hours, they should go to the hospital outpatient clinic. ③For children 6 months to 2 years old, if the child has only a slightly poor mental response to the fever, but plays freely after the temperature has dropped to normal, the child may be observed; if the fever lasts more than 24 hours, the child may go to the hospital for consultation. In addition to temperature, if the child has poor mental response (weak mental response even after the fever subsides), crying and difficult to soothe, decreased milk intake, vomiting, diarrhea, low urination, joint and/or muscle pain, headache, chills, coughing and wheezing, difficulty breathing, and convulsions, go to the hospital. Another easy way to determine this is to see if the child has signs or symptoms that are significantly different from usual, in addition to fever, and if so, seek immediate medical attention.

Special Note: During the current epidemic of novel coronavirus infection, children with a temperature above 37.3°C and any of the following conditions should be seen directly at the fever clinic: (i) a history of travel or residence in Wuhan 14 days prior to the onset of illness; (ii) exposure to a patient with fever and respiratory symptoms from Wuhan within 14 days prior to the onset of illness; (iii) a family with a cluster of patients with fever.

Some symptoms of novel coronavirus pneumonia are similar to those of the common cold, such as fever, weakness of the limbs, dry cough, etc. There are also cases with insignificant symptoms, or symptoms of other systems such as digestive, cardiovascular, neurological, ophthalmic symptoms, etc. Symptoms may be more atypical in newborns and infants, and once detected, the disease progresses rapidly or the observation period has been missed.

The major differences between novel coronavirus infection and common cold are: diarrhea, breathing gradually becomes difficult, such as: breathing too fast or too slow, breathing too deep or too shallow, and in infants or newborns, open-mouth breathing, wheezing, moaning, nasal flapping (nostrils opening and closing), nodding breathing, and even lip and face color changes (cyanosis) and respiratory trigeminal signs. If any of these symptoms occur, please seek immediate medical attention!

Parents with home isolation of suspected cases should try to ensure that the rooms are separated to avoid contact between suspected parents and children, and suspected parents should wear appropriate masks at home (no protective masks with breathing valves), and children should also wear appropriate masks correctly. If possible, you should choose N95 medical mask for children first, and the rest in the order of children's medical protective masks → children's medical masks → disposable masks → children's cotton masks. After contact with suspected patients, children should take the initiative to be isolated and observed at home for 14 days, no symptoms can be released from isolation but try not to go out. As soon as there are symptoms, go to the fever clinic of the pediatric department of the nearest hospital and inform the doctor of the risk factors.

For children who need to be vaccinated during the outbreak, delayed vaccination should be determined on a case-by-case basis. In principle, the delay in vaccination will not affect the effectiveness of immunization and can be replaced in time. In addition, some vaccines that need to be given several times in a row can be temporarily interrupted for some reasons, and the temporary "interruption" will not cause the previous vaccines to be "wasted. However, there are some vaccines that cannot be delayed even during an epidemic of new coronavirus infections, such as rabies vaccine, for which the first dose must be given on the day of the bite. It is recommended to pay close attention to the dynamics of childhood vaccination clinics. If you must go out, you should be protected to avoid infection.

For children with chronic illnesses that require regular review, it is important to follow the primary care physician's assessment of the child's condition and not to make any decisions. If the physician can communicate with parents through online forms to monitor the child's disease, determine the efficacy and maintain the continuity and effectiveness of treatment, the number of hospital visits can be reduced. However, if the disease does not allow, changes or even deteriorates, the child should be seen promptly. During the visit, both the child and the parents should be well protected, especially they should wear a mask throughout the visit, not touching everywhere and not touching the mouth, nose and eyes with unclean hands. If possible, have the necessary tests performed nearby and send the results to the treating doctor online to guide the next treatment.

Finally, parents are reminded to do their daily protection against some common childhood diseases, such as rhinitis, pharyngitis, tonsillitis, common cold, constipation, abdominal pain and diarrhea, to reduce the chance of hospital visits and reduce the risk of cross-infection with the virus.




During the special period of epidemic outbreak, if there are no special instructions or requirements from the government or the maternity hospital, pregnant mothers can insist on normal maternity checkups and be prepared to wear medical grade or higher masks and carry hand sanitizer or disinfectant wipes before going to the maternity hospital; do not touch the mouth, nose, eyes, etc. without washing hands; cooperate with the hospital for temperature screening, including epidemiological screening, etc.; follow the hospital's advice, such as splitting up the time slots to avoid too many pregnant women waiting together; wash hands and faces when leaving the hospital. When you go to the hospital, you should always cooperate with the hospital for temperature screening, including epidemiological screening, etc.; follow the hospital's advice, such as splitting the consultation time to avoid too many pregnant women being grouped together and reduce the waiting time or consultation time in the hospital; when you leave the hospital, you should wash your hands and face, and washing your face should include washing your ears and nose, and you should also change your external clothing. Without special problems, pregnant women whose gestational weeks are in early and middle pregnancy can extend the interval between visits to the hospital appropriately on the advice of the doctor. If a pregnant woman has a fever, it is recommended to visit the fever clinic directly first, and then, depending on the results of the examination, a series of subsequent examinations or recommendations will be given.

The early manifestations of novel coronavirus pneumonia lack characteristics and are not easily distinguishable from upper respiratory tract infections caused by the common cold or other pathogens, making it difficult to self-diagnose. If pregnant mothers have symptoms such as fever and cough, they need to pay attention to monitor their body temperature and keep records of the symptoms such as vomiting, abdominal pain, diarrhea, muscle aches, etc. Do not self-medicate, and consult your obstetrician before using medication; if the symptoms are mild and no other symptoms appear, consider dealing with them at home to avoid cross-infection at the hospital; if obstetric emergencies occur If there are symptoms of obstetric emergencies, such as vaginal bleeding, abdominal pain, abnormal fetal movement, signs of labor, etc., it is recommended that you should take good precautions and go to the hospital in time.

If a pregnant mother develops symptoms such as low fever, sore throat and cough and has risk factors such as having been to an area where the disease is endemic and possibly having been in contact with a patient with New Coronary Pneumonia, home isolation should be started immediately. When the disease worsens, symptoms such as high fever and dyspnea should be promptly seen at a fever clinic. There are not enough data to confirm the risk of maternal-fetal transmission of novel coronavirus infection. If a pregnant woman is diagnosed with novel coronavirus pneumonia, a multidisciplinary consultation should be conducted to determine whether to continue the pregnancy, taking into account the patient's specific circumstances, including gestational age and severity of illness.

If a pregnant mother has symptoms of pneumonia, she should go to the emergency room. The emergency medical staff will first prediagnose and triage pregnant mothers with fever and suspected pneumonia, take their temperature, and direct them to the designated fever clinic; at the same time, the fever clinic staff will organize a consultation with obstetricians and perform obstetric examinations, fetal heart monitoring, and ultrasound to assess the intrauterine safety of the fetus if necessary. Currently, suspected and confirmed cases of pulmonary infection in pregnancy are being seen in the obstetrics departments of medical institutions in Hubei Province at all gestational ages. Effective measures are being taken in all regions to designate medical institutions with strong comprehensive obstetric and neonatal care capabilities to provide maternal care and safe delivery services to ensure the safety of mothers and infants. There is no evidence that the virus can be transmitted to newborns. It is recommended that the baby be isolated for 10 days after birth and not breastfed while under close supervision.



Medical personnel should follow the standard precautionary principles and do a good job in hospital infection control such as personal protection, hand hygiene, ward management, environmental ventilation, cleaning and disinfection of object surfaces and medical waste management according to the risks that may be transmitted by medical operations to avoid hospital infections to the greatest extent possible. The following points need to be noted during daily treatment activities.

(1) engaged in medical treatment activities, medical and nursing staff should wear medical masks, and regular replacement.

(2) Medical staff at the pre-care triage office must wear overalls, work caps, and medical surgical masks.

(3) Give patients and accompanying family members to wear medical surgical masks during the face consultation and keep a certain distance. Do the effective ventilation of the consultation room.

(4) Medical and nursing staff in fever clinics, respiratory clinics, infectious disease departments and isolation wards should wear work clothes, disposable isolation clothing, work caps and medical surgical masks during daily consultation activities and room visits.

(5) Protective masks and goggles or protective face screens should be worn when collecting respiratory samples.

(6) Contact with blood, body fluids, secretions or excretions should be added when wearing latex gloves.

(7) Medical protective masks, goggles or protective face screens, latex gloves, medical gowns (disposable impermeable barrier gowns can be added) and breathing hoods should be worn when performing tracheal intubation, bronchoscopy, airway care and suctioning, etc., where aerosol or splash operations may occur.

(8) It is forbidden to leave the contaminated area wearing personal protective equipment in order to avoid cross-infection in each partition. Strictly follow the process of putting on and taking off equipment (see "Process of putting on and taking off protective equipment for medical personnel").


The process of putting on and taking off protective equipment for medical personnel


A. Medical staff to enter the isolation ward to wear protective equipment procedures
(A) medical staff through the staff special channel into the clean area, carefully wash their hands after wearing medical protective masks, disposable hats or cloth caps, change of work shoes and socks, the conditions can be replaced by hand-brushing clothes and pants.
(ii) Wear work clothes before entering the potentially contaminated area, and wear gloves to enter the potentially contaminated area if the skin on the hands is broken or suspected of having damage.
(C) before entering the contaminated area, take off work clothes for protective clothing or isolation clothing, plus wear disposable hats and disposable medical surgical masks (wearing a total of two layers of hats, masks), protective glasses, gloves, shoe covers.
Second, medical personnel leave the isolation area to take off protective equipment procedures
(A) medical personnel should disinfect their hands before leaving the contaminated area, in turn, take off protective glasses, outer disposable medical surgical mask and outer disposable hat, protective clothing or isolation clothing, shoe covers, gloves and other items, divided into special containers, hand disinfection again, enter the potentially contaminated area, change to wear work clothes.
(b) Before leaving the potentially contaminated area and entering the clean area, wash hands and hand disinfection, take off work clothes, wash hands and hand disinfection.
(C) before leaving the clean area, hand washing and hand disinfection, remove the lining disposable cap or cloth cap, lining medical protective mask, shower and dressing, and oral, nasal and external ear canal cleaning.
(iv) Wash and disinfect hands immediately after each contact with the patient.
(E) disposable medical surgical masks, medical protective masks, protective clothing or isolation clothing and other protective supplies are contaminated with patient blood, body fluids, secretions, etc. should be replaced immediately.
(vi) personal hygiene disposal should be carried out before work, and attention to respiratory and mucous membrane protection.





Patients who unfortunately develop novel coronavirus pneumonia not only suffer physically, but also undergo tremendous psychological stress. Due to the lack of specific treatment and the highly contagious nature of the disease, patients not only face an unprecedented fear of death, but also fear for the safety of family and friends with whom they have had contact, and are plunged into a deep sense of self-blame. For each patient, this is a sudden life crisis. At this time, if you feel anxiety, fear, anger, helplessness, etc., are normal emotional reactions, the first thing patients should do is to adapt to the hospital environment and treatment process, trust the medical staff, and actively cooperate with treatment; then try to control negative emotions, such as pessimism, self-blame, self-hatred, tension; promote positive emotions, such as self-confidence, optimism, courage, etc.

In addition, there are specific measures that patients can take to "help themselves".

(1) The seriousness of the situation should be evaluated correctly. Because novel coronavirus pneumonia is a serious infectious disease that requires hospitalization and isolation and a period of time away from family members, it is important to be prepared to endure isolation. This is especially important for patients who are dependent and young.

(2) Actively obtain information about the disease and treatment, and correctly evaluate your condition and estimate the prognosis. Neither underestimate the disease, full of care; nor blindly exaggerate, thinking that once the disease, will certainly die. So far, patients with novel coronavirus pneumonia have been cured and very few have died. Learn about medical care, learn to take care of yourself, and report any discomfort to your health care provider.

(3) Learn to express your inner needs and feelings. Vent negative emotions such as helplessness, disappointment and dissatisfaction in a timely manner, do not keep them inside and do not worry about others laughing at your cowardice. You can communicate with your patients, exchange emotions and views, and get stable emotional support from each other; or take the initiative to consult with health care professionals to get professional guidance.

(4) Determine specific and limited life goals according to the actual situation. For example, how to cooperate with the hospital to eliminate symptoms and restore health as soon as possible, which is the most important thing at present; and not to think too much about things outside the hospital, such as family arrangements.

(5) By evaluating the disease and estimating the prognosis, it is necessary to revise the life goals before the disease and rebuild realistic and feasible future life goals. It is important to be prepared for the possibility that the previously established work and study plans or life arrangements may change due to the disease.



Home isolates, who have not yet been diagnosed, often bear greater psychological stress. Therefore, home isolates should actively adjust their mindset and adopt coping strategies, which on the one hand can reduce the adverse emotions that trigger somatization symptoms, and on the other hand can help their immune system to improve to fight against the virus.

(1) Understanding of real and reliable information and knowledge

It helps us to collect as much authoritative information as possible, to learn in detail about the disease, and to have a clear understanding of the real epidemic, the possibility of transmission, the damage of the disease to the body and the mortality rate, etc. This helps us to be psychologically stable.

(2) Facing up to your situation and accepting your bad feelings

Feeling fear, nervousness, irritability, loneliness, aggression, anger, self-blame and shame, paranoia, depression, etc., and even self-blame and guilt when pessimistic, complaining about others and blaming the government when angry, etc., are all our reactions to stress, and each of us will appear more or less at this time, and these will slowly subside over time, they do not indicate that something is wrong with our brain or body, do not let Don't be too afraid and unaccepting of these uncomfortable feelings, which can lead to a vicious cycle of tension, learn to make peace with these symptoms, and don't force yourself not to react emotionally and to be completely tension-free.

(3) Confronting the situation of accepting isolation

It is natural that isolated people will have a hard time, but this is to better protect themselves and others. We also have to deal with the intentional avoidance and distancing of others, or those who complain about our anger because they are too afraid of the virus, which may give us an inappropriate sense of shame that we are "ominous" and "annoying," but we need to understand that it is not us who are being avoided and distanced, but the infectious virus. But we need to understand that it is not us who are avoided and distanced, but the contagious virus. The struggle between human beings and diseases and disasters is eternal, and in every such struggle, there are always people with a deep sense of responsibility who sacrifice their interests, their freedom, and even their lives for the benefit of society and the public at large. We are still under observation, and even if we are unfortunate enough to be infected, there is a great possibility that we will be cured.

(4) Seek resources to deal with stress

More communication with their relatives, friends, colleagues, organizations, etc., although not face to face, but completely through modern means of communication such as telephone, SMS, e-mail, online chat, etc., each other to confide in each other's feelings, mutual greetings, comfort, support and encouragement are beneficial to us, think that a person in the face of pain we will be very lonely, feel that many people in the face of difficulties together with us we will feel more powerful.

(5) Actively cooperate with scientific and effective treatment

Although there are no specific medications for the new coronavirus, it is important to follow medical treatments, ensure adequate nutrition, maintain the function of all body systems, prevent complications, and it is also very important to have a positive and optimistic attitude towards the disease, fully believing and appreciating our body's ability to coordinate and recover itself.

(6) Preserve as much of normal life as possible

The impact of isolation on life is often multifaceted, work, study, recreation and leisure, diet, etc., but we should live as normally as possible with the necessary scientific treatment and protective measures, on the one hand, making the loss reduced to a minimum, on the other hand, will also make the emotional recovery as soon as possible, normal life to have a normal mood.

(7) Commitment to constructive things

It is often said that "turning grief into strength", and there is no more mature way for people in a state of pain than to sublimate this painful emotion into a constructive motivation, a famous psychologist wrote a monumental work of psychology in a Nazi concentration camp, and the poet Goethe completed "The Trouble with Young Werther" in the days of lost love. "The Trouble with Young Werther". The virus makes us suffer from illness and isolation, we have to participate more actively in the fight against the virus, trying to cooperate with isolation and treatment, and keep working or creating when possible.

(8) Finding the positive meaning in adversity

We can take the isolation as a short vacation, so that we can temporarily get away from the hustle and bustle of the crowd, calmly think about the problems we didn't have time to think about before, read the books and entertainment we want to read, listen to our favorite music, and enjoy a short period of solitude and separation.

(9) Make good use of the help of professional psychology

If necessary, you can consult your condition online to get scientific and reasonable advice, or call a psychological intervention or counseling hotline when self-adjustment is difficult.



