The duties of medical workers in this epidemic dictate that they have the most important and at the same time the most dangerous task in this battle. Under heavy pressure, the most common reactions of medical personnel included the following.

(1) They are afraid that their family members will worry about them, so they will always try to find time to contact their family members and report to them. When they hear that their family members are in trouble, they will feel sad and blame themselves for not doing more for them.

(2) As they are busy with a lot of clinical work every day, they will be physically and psychologically exhausted. If the information is not well communicated, they will feel confused about the work prospect, think that the work is long and indefinite, and become pessimistic and averse to doing clinical work every day.

(3) When seeing a patient in great pain and not being able to save his life despite his best efforts, he will psychologically feel self-defeated and think that he is not a good doctor or nurse, and strongly blame himself and feel guilty.

(4) When seeing other health care workers in the ward are busy treating patients, they will feel that others are stronger than they are and think they are the most vulnerable person, thus not accepting their vulnerability, not daring to admit and express their painful emotions, and not wanting to communicate with others, worrying that they will be looked down upon by others after they tell their feelings, often bearing the pain alone, relying on reason and will to suppress and control As a result, they feel more painful and helpless.

In the above-mentioned situations, health care workers become anxious, cannot control their temper often, and become impatient with patients and colleagues. When encountering complaints from patients, they feel aggrieved and unappreciated. These psychological reactions can largely affect the mutual cooperation and efficiency of health care workers. Therefore, they should receive timely psychological counseling and help. At this time, society, hospitals and individuals can take some necessary interventions to maintain a good psychological state and actively make good psychological adjustment, which can both maintain combat effectiveness and effectively prevent trauma and stress disorders.

Societies and hospitals can.

(1) Eliminate the worries of front-line medical workers as much as possible, and arrange volunteers to assist their families in case of family difficulties, so that medical workers can put their minds at ease into their work.

(2) For health care workers already working on the front lines of the epidemic, schedule their shifts rationally and plan ahead so that everyone has adequate psychological expectations of their work and avoid ad hoc arrangements; maintain proper rest and ensure adequate sleep and diet. Provide rest and sleeping areas for self-isolation without returning home.

(3) For health care workers who are about to enter the frontline of an epidemic, it is recommended that a preventive interview for stress be conducted along with pre-service training. The purpose of the group interview is to: openly discuss internal feelings; support and reassure; mobilize resources; and help the person prepare psychologically (cognitively and emotionally) for the stress.

(4) Make health care workers aware of normal reactions to catastrophic events and provide timely assistance when the following signs occur: difficulty communicating thoughts, difficulty remembering instructions, difficulty maintaining balance, arguments over trivial matters, difficulty making decisions, narrow attention span, unnecessary risk-taking behavior, tremor/headache/nausea, limited vision/blurred hearing, cold or flu-like symptoms, disorientation or mental confusion , difficulty concentrating, purposeless movements, easily frustrated, difficulty solving problems, difficulty calming down when off duty, refusal to carry out orders, refusal to leave the scene, increased use of drugs/alcohol, appearing clumsier than usual, etc.

Health care professionals should also be aware of their state and help themselves and others in a timely manner.

(1) Allow yourself to show weakness. When you feel that you cannot bear the pressure, please tell the leader in charge in time and do things according to your ability. Also allow yourself to cry when you are sad and moved. Doctors and nurses are not steel, they also have emotions, they also have anxiety, fear, anxiety and fear. Be firm and tell yourself: In such a major public event, in such a harsh battlefield, it is normal and natural for me to have these emotions, and I will recover when such a stressful event is over. Never self-depreciate, or even rise to self-worth and lose hope in life.

(2) Limit working hours; drink plenty of water and eat healthful foods such as fresh fruit; take frequent short breaks away from the site if possible.

(3) In your spare time, perform appropriate muscle relaxation exercises, i.e., gradually tense and relax each muscle group, so that the muscles can experience the sensation of tension and relaxation. Or perform deep breathing exercises, meditation, positive thinking, etc. Related instructional phrases and information can be found on the Internet.

(4) Talk about what you have seen and how you feel about doing your job; stay in touch with your family and friends; and buddy up with another colleague so you can monitor the stress you are experiencing.

(5) If stress symptoms have occurred, switch jobs: from a high stress position to a low stress position, or from the field to a regular position if that works; consult and seek help through the unit.

(6) In case of emergency, such as sudden transfer of post, major casualty accident, death of a colleague, death of a patient, suicide of a patient, etc., professionals should be asked to conduct a group interview for serious incidents.

(7) If you experience inability to sleep, depression, anxiety, panic attacks, etc., which cannot be relieved for 2 weeks and affect your work, you may seek consultation with a professional psychiatric psychologist. One-on-one psychological counseling and group psychological counseling can be carried out. The above psychological counseling can be conducted remotely to prevent infection of psychological intervention personnel, such as voice, video, telephone and other various methods.



Faced with the continuous spread and development of the Newcastle pneumonia epidemic, every member of the general public in the midst of the epidemic is faced with the unknown risk of the disease. According to reports, the general public has strong emotional reactions to the epidemic such as worry, fear, and anger, and positive emotions are significantly reduced, and many people are even experiencing significant disruptions in their normal lives due to the persistence of negative emotions and difficulties in getting rid of them. The following methods can improve the general public's ability to self-regulate at home, so that they can respond positively and rationally to the epidemic.

(1) Reasonable attention to the epidemic, "regularly" rather than "at all times".

Information management is a change in the traditional way of handling information about the epidemic and a way to regulate the management of the epidemic and its psychological impact. The public learns information about the outbreak and related protective knowledge from formal channels, takes active and effective protective measures, and protects itself well. Frequent reports are intended to draw attention to the disease, but there is no need to panic about it, and the actual severity of the disease will not be increased by frequent reports. You can set an "information alarm clock" and spend a few minutes every half day to pay attention to the epidemic information, and the rest of the day for daily activities such as sports, work, housework or recreation, so that you can get a normal rest and enjoy your mood while keeping abreast of the epidemic. With the necessary protection, a rich and regular life will give us a stronger "psychological immunity" and the strength and confidence to face the changing and unknown risks.

(2) Maintain social ties and give support to each other.

Close family ties and social support are an important source of "security" for people who feel isolated and helpless in the face of the risks of an epidemic. Close family ties and social support are important sources of "safety". It is advisable to communicate with friends to encourage each other, communicate with each other and strengthen psychological support. It is also important to avoid unprotected face-to-face meetings and to encourage communication by phone, Internet, and cell phone text messaging to avoid the spread of novel pneumonia. For vulnerable people, such as children and the elderly, try to give more encouragement and life care. As prevention and control are prolonged, support for each other can enable us to cope with adversity more permanently.

(3) Monitor psychological power and help yourself before helping others.

We sometimes feel frustrated or inadequate in the face of difficult situations in areas with severe epidemics. It is recommended that this group of people take a "psychological battery monitor" and spend one minute every half day to assess their current emotional state (on a scale of 0 to 100, with 100 being positive and energetic, and 0 being physically and emotionally exhausted and severely depleted). If you are already depleted, helpless and frustrated, adjust the pace and intensity of your assistance, or take a break to "recharge". If you feel emotional and physical abnormalities and discomfort, seek help or medical attention to avoid depletion of your "psychological power" due to continuous commitment.

In daily life, it is important to look at life positively and act positively to establish good living and hygiene habits. Pay attention to a good diet, ensure sleep, accept your fear, tension, anxiety and other emotions, and use reasonable methods of catharsis. Do not resort to denial, avoidance and withdrawal, over-reliance on others, blame and complaint, diversion and other poor coping methods, do not try to relieve tension through the use of alcohol and tobacco, and do not engage in tantrums, impulsive injuries, self-inflicted suicides and other behaviors. When the spread of the epidemic is effectively contained, you should not be blindly optimistic, relax your vigilance, or neglect protection.



With the increasing severity of the new coronavirus pneumonia, children must have a lot of curiosity and wonder why the planned winter vacation trip is cancelled? Why do I have to wear a mask when I go out? Why is the start of school delayed? With all this going on, it is important to find the right way to communicate with children in a way that does not create great fear and at the same time is understood and valued.

First of all, when facing children, parents should adjust their self-state, maintain emotional stability and regular and orderly life. Children often observe and experience the world through their parents' emotions and behaviors, so parents should promptly detect and regulate their own anxiety and fear, and try to present a stable, positive and powerful side in front of their children to help them establish a sense of security. Parents can consciously arrange some study, indoor exercise, housework, parent-child games, etc. to help their children adjust their life routine, allocate time in a reasonable and scientific way, and increase the emotional communication between relatives to bring confidence and security to their children.

Parents should accept their children's emotional reactions to current situations and be more patient in explaining the dangers of the outside world to them, conveying information in a way they can understand and in words they can understand. Parents can encourage their children to express their thoughts and emotional feelings in the way they are used to, help them identify and name their emotions such as "fear, dread, and happiness", help them express their feelings through drawing and doodling, allow them to cry and express their fears, and help them recognize that fear and dread are normal Emotional reactions. You can also use storytelling and games to help your child understand the concepts of viruses and illnesses, learn to face them with the right attitude, increase awareness and develop good habits, and become more understanding of mom and dad's decisions.

Parents may need to spend more time with their children, giving love and care during the special times when the epidemic is raging.




Pay attention to ensure nutritional balance, adhere to exercise, to achieve scientific nutrition.

(1) adequate energy, cereals and potatoes to ensure that the daily intake of 250 to 400g, including rice, flour, mixed grains such as corn, buckwheat and potatoes. Can be moderate consumption of milk (preferably yogurt products), soy foods, adhere to a daily egg, milk and milk products 300g, so that more than the usual 20g of high-quality protein, to ensure that the "resistance". Do not eat wild animals.


(2) Eat fresh vegetables and fruits every day, not less than 5 kinds of vegetables per day, preferably more than 500g. Half of them are dark-colored fruits and vegetables. Fruits to ensure 200 to 350g. fresh fruits and vegetables, as well as nuts and other plant crops rich in B vitamins, vitamin C, vitamin E, etc., has a strong antioxidant, immune regulating effect.

(3) Drink plenty of water in moderation, 1500 to 2000ml per day, many times in small amounts and effectively; you can drink warm boiled water or light tea. Before and after meals, vegetable soup, fish soup, chicken soup, etc. is also a good choice.

(4) A wide variety of food types, sources and colors, no less than 20 kinds of food per day; do not be partial to food, meat and vegetarian mix.

(5) rich sources of edible fats and oils, and moderate increase in the intake of essential fatty acids. Cooking with vegetable oils rich in n-9 monounsaturated fatty acids and hard fruits and oily foods, such as peanuts, walnuts, pistachios, etc.. The total fat energy supply ratio reaches 25% to 30% of the total dietary energy.

(6) Do not diet and do not lose weight during the novel coronavirus pneumonia epidemic.

(7) Regular rest and adequate sleep, ensuring at least 7 hours of sleep per day.

(8) Carry out individual types of physical exercise for a cumulative time of at least one hour per day, and do not participate in group sports activities.

(9) During the epidemic of novel coronavirus pneumonia, it is recommended to supplement health food products such as compound vitamins, minerals and deep-sea fish oil in appropriate amounts.

(10) For patients with inadequate diet, the elderly and chronic wasting underlying diseases, it is recommended to increase commercial enteral nutrition (special medical food) with no less than 500 additional calories per day.



Adhere to a reasonable diet and improve your resistance through balanced nutrition. Refer to the "Dietary Guidelines for Chinese Residents (2016)" issued by the Chinese Nutrition Society for nutritional "prescriptions". Under the current special circumstances, the following entries are also applicable to the general population.


(1) energy to be sufficient, cereal and potatoes to ensure that the daily intake of 250 ~ 400g, including rice, flour, miscellaneous grains such as corn, buckwheat and potatoes, etc.. Can moderate consumption of milk, class (preferably yogurt products), soy, in food, adhere to a daily egg, milk and milk products 300g, so that more than the usual 20g of high-quality protein, to ensure that "resistance. Do not eat wild animals.


(2) Eat fresh vegetables and fruits every day, not less than 5 kinds of vegetables per day, preferably more than 500g. Half of them are dark-colored fruits and vegetables. Fruits to ensure 200 to 350g. fresh fruits and vegetables, as well as nuts and other plant crops rich in B vitamins, vitamin C, vitamin E, etc., has a strong antioxidant, immune regulating effect.


(3) Drink plenty of water in moderation, 1500 to 2000ml per day, many times in small amounts and effectively; you can drink warm boiled water or light tea. Before and after meals, vegetable soup, fish soup, chicken soup, etc. is also a good choice.


(4) Moderate increase in the intake of high quality fats, including cooking with vegetable oils rich in n-9 fatty acids and hard fruits and oily foods such as peanuts, walnuts, etc., the total fat energy supply ratio of 25% to 30% of the total dietary energy.


(5) Ensure adequate water intake, 1500 to 2000ml per day, and drink water in small amounts many times and effectively; you can drink warm boiled water or light tea. Before and after meals, vegetable soup, fish soup, chicken soup, etc. are also good choices.


(6) Don't touch, buy and eat wild animals; pay attention to the kitchen food handling to separate raw and cooked food, animal food should be cooked and boiled thoroughly; family meals, the implementation of meal sharing system or the use of common spoons, common chopsticks and other measures to avoid mutual infection with family members. Prohibit smoking and alcohol, and avoid spicy and stimulating foods.


(7) Fresh vegetables, fruits and nuts and other plant crops are rich in B vitamins, vitamin C and vitamin E, which have strong antioxidant and immune regulating effects and should be supplemented with attention. Nutrient supplements can also be added in appropriate amounts.


(8) Soybeans and products, mushroom food, goji berries, astragalus and other foods contain flavonoids, betaine and other antioxidant substances, lean meat is rich in protein, L-carnitine are helpful in strengthening resistance.


(9) Those with poor appetite who do not eat enough should pay attention to the supplementation of B vitamins and vitamin C, vitamin A, vitamin D and other micronutrients.


(10) Maintain a moderate amount of outdoor activities (no group activities) and increase the time of light.

