(H) Heavy and critical support treatment.
1. Treatment principles: Based on the above treatment, active prevention and treatment of complications, treatment of underlying diseases, prevention of secondary infections, and timely organ function support.
2. Respiratory support.
(1) Nasal cannula or mask oxygenation
Oxygen therapy should be given immediately to all heavy patients with PaO2/FiO2 below 300 mmHg. After receiving oxygen by nasal cannula or mask, monitor closely for a short period of time (1-2 hours) and if respiratory distress and/or hypoxemia does not improve, use nasal high-flow oxygen therapy (HFNC) or noninvasive ventilation (NIV).
(2) Transnasal high-flow oxygen therapy or non-invasive ventilation
Patients with PaO2/FiO2 below 200 mmHg should be given transnasal high-flow oxygen therapy (HFNC) or non-invasive ventilation (NIV). Patients receiving HFNC or NIV without contraindications are recommended to be ventilated simultaneously in the prone position, i.e., awake prone ventilation, and the duration of prone treatment should be greater than 12 hours per day.
Some patients have a high risk of failure with HFNC or NIV therapy and need to be closely monitored for signs and symptoms. If the condition does not improve after a short period of time (1-2 hours), especially if the hypoxemia does not improve after treatment in the prone position, or if the respiratory frequency, tidal volume, or inspiratory effort is too high, it often indicates that HFNC or NIV treatment is not effective and invasive mechanical ventilation should be performed promptly.
(3) Invasive mechanical ventilation
In general, tracheal intubation and invasive mechanical ventilation should be considered in patients with PaO2/FiO2 below 150 mmHg, especially in those with significantly enhanced inspiratory effort. However, given the atypical clinical manifestations of hypoxemia in heavy and critically ill patients, whether or not PaO2/FiO2 is achieved should not be considered solely as an indication for tracheal intubation and invasive mechanical ventilation, but should be evaluated in real time in conjunction with the patient's clinical manifestations and organ function. It is worth noting that delayed tracheal intubation can be more harmful.
Early and appropriate invasive mechanical ventilation is an important treatment tool for critically ill patients. Implement a lung-protective mechanical ventilation strategy. In patients with moderate to severe acute respiratory distress syndrome or with invasive mechanical ventilation with FiO2 above 50%, pulmonary resuscitation may be used and the decision to perform repeated pulmonary resuscitation maneuvers should be based on the responsiveness of pulmonary resuscitation. It should be noted that some patients with novel coronavirus pneumonia have poor pulmonary retensionability, and excessive PEEP leading to pneumatic injury should be avoided.
