In order to further improve the treatment of novel coronavirus pneumonia (COVID-19), we organized experts to revise the contents of the "Novel Coronavirus Pneumonia Treatment Protocol (Trial Version 8 Revised)" and formed the "Novel Coronavirus Pneumonia Treatment Protocol (Trial Version 9)".
I. Etiological characteristics
The novel coronavirus (SARS-CoV-2) belongs to the β genus of coronaviruses with an envelope and round or oval-shaped particles with a diameter of 60-140 nm. It has five essential genes targeting four structural proteins, namely, nucleoprotein (N), viral envelope (E), matrix protein (M) and spinosynuclein (S), and RNA-dependent RNA polymerase (RdRp). Nucleoprotein (N) wraps around the RNA genome to form a nucleocapsid, surrounded by the viral envelope (E), which contains proteins such as matrix protein (M) and stabile protein (S). The stinger proteins enter the cells by binding angiotensin-converting enzyme 2 (ACE-2). When isolated in vitro, the novel coronavirus was found in human respiratory epithelial cells in about 96 hours, while it took about 4-6 days to isolate in Vero E6 and Huh-7 cell lines.
Like other viruses, the novel coronavirus genome is subject to mutations, some of which affect the biological properties of the virus, such as changes in the affinity of the S protein for ACE-2, which will affect the ability of the virus to invade cells, replicate, spread, the production of antibodies during recovery and after vaccination, and the ability to neutralize antibody drugs.
This has led to widespread concern. The World Health Organization (WHO) has identified five "variants of concern" (VOC), namely Alpha, Beta, Gamma, Delta and Omicron. The Omicron strain has now replaced the Delta strain as the predominant prevalent strain. The available evidence suggests that the Omicron strain is more transmissible than the Delta strain and less pathogenic. The diagnostic accuracy of PCR tests routinely used in China has not been affected, but may have reduced the neutralizing effect of some monoclonal antibody drugs.
Coronavirus is sensitive to UV light and heat. Lipid solvents such as 56°C for 30 minutes, ether, 75% ethanol, chlorinated disinfectants, peroxyacetic acid and chloroform are effective in inactivating the virus, while chlorhexidine is not effective.
Second, epidemiological characteristics
(i) Sources of infection.
The main source of infection is the novel coronavirus infection, which becomes infectious during the incubation period and is more contagious within 5 days after the onset of the disease.
(ii) transmission channels.
