Recommended acupuncture points for acupuncture treatment: Foot San Li (moxibustion), Bai Hui, Tai Xi. Acupuncture
Acupuncture method: select the above acupuncture points, acupuncture flat tonic and flat diarrhea, retain the needles for 30 minutes, once a day. Acupuncture points: Dazhi, Lung Yu, Spleen Yu, and Kong Shen, each time for 40 minutes, once a day.
3. Herbal treatment for children
The characteristics of TCM symptoms and core pathogenesis of pediatric patients are basically the same as those of adults, so treatment should be based on the TCM treatment plan for adults, combined with the clinical symptoms and physiological characteristics of pediatric patients, and used according to the evidence. The treatment is based on the adult TCM treatment plan, combined with the clinical symptoms and physiological characteristics of pediatric patients.
(x) Early recovery.
We focus on early rehabilitation interventions for patients with novel coronavirus pneumonia, and actively carry out rehabilitation training and interventions for patients with respiratory function, somatic function and psychological disorders, in order to restore physical fitness, body mass and immunity as much as possible.
XII. Nursing
According to the patient's condition, the nursing priorities were defined and basic nursing care was done. In critically ill patients, the patient's vital signs and state of consciousness were closely observed, with emphasis on monitoring oxygen saturation. In critically ill patients, 24-hour continuous ECG monitoring is performed, and the patient's heart rate and oxygen saturation are measured every hour.
Respiratory rate, blood pressure, oxygen saturation (SpO2), and temperature are measured and recorded every 4 hours. Reasonable and correct use of intravenous access, and keep all kinds of lines open and properly fixed. Change the position of bedridden patients regularly to prevent pressure injury. According to the nursing
The patient should be given proper care for non-invasive mechanical ventilation, invasive mechanical ventilation, artificial airway, prone ventilation, sedation and analgesia, and ECMO treatment. Pay special attention to patient oral care and fluid intake and output management, and prevent misaspiration in patients with invasive mechanical ventilation. The psychological status of awake patients was assessed in a timely manner, and psychological care was provided.
XIII. Discharge management, discharge criteria and precautions after discharge management and discharge
