Clinical manifestations: low fever or no fever, slight chills, fatigue, head and body heaviness, muscle aches, dry cough with little sputum, sore throat, dry mouth with no desire to drink more, or with chest tightness and abdominal constipation, no sweating or poor sweating, or vomiting and nausea, loose stools or sticky and unpleasant stools. The tongue is light red, the coating is white, thick and greasy or thin yellow, and the pulse is smooth or moist.
Recommended prescription: Betel nut 10g, Cao Guo 10g, Hou Pu 10g, Zhi Mu 10g, Baicalin 10g, Chai Hu 10g, Radix Paeoniae Alba 10g, Forsythia 15g, Artemisia 10g (later down), Atractylodes macrocephala 10g, Rhizoma Atractylodis Macrocephalae 10g, Radix Glycyrrhiza Uralensis 5g.
Dosage: 1 dose daily, 400ml in water, divided into 2 doses, 1 in the morning and 1 in the evening.
Recommended Chinese patent medicine: Jinhua Qingxian granules, Lianhua Qingxian capsule (granules) Jinhua Qingxian granules: take with boiling water, 12 sachets once, 3 times a day. The course of treatment is 57 days.
Lianhua Qingfei Granules: Take orally. 1 sachet once, 3 times a day. The course of treatment is 710 days.
How to take Lianhua Qingfei Capsules: Take orally. Take 4 capsules once, 3 times a day.
Acupuncture points recommended for treatment: Hegu, Houxi, Yinlingquan, Taixi, Lung Yu, and Spleen Yu. Acupuncture method: 3 acupoints are selected each time, and the acupuncture is performed by the method of flat tonic and flat diarrhea, and the acupuncture is retained for 30 minutes, once a day.
2.3 General type (1) Dampness and toxicity in the lung
Clinical manifestations: fever, cough with little sputum, or yellow sputum, shortness of breath, abdominal distension, constipation. The tongue is dark red, with a fat body, yellow greasy or yellow dry coating, and a slippery or smooth pulse.
Recommended prescription: Xuanlung and Poison Elimination Formula
Basic formula: 6g of Ephedra, 15g of fried bitter almonds, 30g of raw gypsum, 30g of coix seeds, 10g of bran fried atractylodes, 15g of patchouli, 12g of artemisia, 20g of tiger scepter, 30g of verbena, 30g of rhizome, 15g of scape seed, 15g of orange red, 10g of licorice.
