Children's cardiopulmonary compensatory capacity is weaker than that of adults, and they are more sensitive to hypoxia and need to respond to
Use more aggressive oxygen therapy and ventilation support strategies than in adults, and indications should be relaxed as appropriate; routine application of pulmonary resuscitation is not recommended.
3. Circulatory support: Critical patients may be combined with shock and should be reasonably treated with vasoactive drugs on the basis of adequate fluid resuscitation. If necessary, perform hemodynamic monitoring.
4. Acute kidney injury and renal replacement therapy: Critically ill patients may have a combination of acute kidney injury, and the etiology, such as low perfusion and drugs, should be actively sought. While actively correcting the etiology, attention should be paid to maintaining water, electrolyte, acid-base balance. Indications for continuous renal replacement therapy (CRRT) include: ① hyperkalemia; ② severe acidosis.
(iii) Pulmonary edema or water overload where diuretics are ineffective.
5. Multisystemic Inflammatory Syndrome in Children (MIS-C): The principle of treatment is multidisciplinary cooperation, early anti-inflammatory, correction of shock and coagulation dysfunction, organ function support, and anti-infective therapy if necessary. Intravenous gammaglobulin is preferred in the absence of shock
(IVIG), 2g/kg, with intensive treatment such as methylprednisolone 1~2mg/kg/day or tolimumab if the condition does not improve; intravenous gammaglobulin (IVIG) combined with methylprednisolone 1~2mg/kg/day is preferred for combined shock; large doses of methylprednisolone shock (10~30mg/kg/day) or immunotherapy such as tolimumab are used for children with refractory severe disease.
6. Patients with severe or critical pregnancies: the risk of continuing the pregnancy should be evaluated multidisciplinary and terminated if necessary, with cesarean delivery being the first choice.
7. Nutritional support: nutritional risk assessment should be enhanced, enteral nutrition should be preferred, and the protection of
The calorie intake is 25~30 kcal/kg/day, protein >1.2g/kg/day, and parenteral nutrition is added if necessary. Intestinal microecological regulators can be used to maintain intestinal microecological balance and prevent secondary bacterial infections.
(ix) Chinese medicine treatment.
