The spleen is reduced in size. The white marrow is atrophied, the number of lymphocytes is reduced and some cells are necrotic; the red marrow is congested and focally hemorrhagic, macrophages are proliferated and phagocytosis is visible in the spleen
Phenomenon; anaemic infarction of the spleen is easily seen. The number of lymphocytes in the lymph nodes was reduced and necrosis was seen. Immunohistochemical staining shows a decrease in both CD4+ T and CD8+ T cells in the spleen and lymph nodes. Lymph node tissue may be positive for novel coronavirus nucleic acid, and macrophage immunostaining for novel coronavirus antigen may be positive. Bone marrow hematopoietic cells are either hyperplastic or reduced in number, with an increased granulocyte-to-red ratio; occasional phagocytosis is seen.
(iii) Heart and blood vessels.
Some myocardial cells may show degeneration and necrosis, interstitial congestion and edema, and a few monocytes, lymphocytes and/or neutrophil infiltration. Novel coronavirus nucleic acid tests are occasionally positive.
Endothelial cell detachment, endothelial or whole-layer inflammation is seen in small vessels in major parts of the body; mixed intravascular thrombosis, thromboembolism and infarction in corresponding areas are seen. The microvessels of the major organs are prone to hyaline thrombosis.
(iv) Liver and gallbladder.
Hepatocyte degeneration and focal necrosis with neutrophil infiltration; hepatic blood sinusoidal congestion, lymphocyte and monocyte infiltration and microthrombosis in the confluent area. The gallbladder was highly filled and the epithelium of the gallbladder mucosa was detached. The liver and gallbladder were positive for novel coronavirus nucleic acid.
(v) Kidney.
Glomerular capillaries are congested, with occasional segmental fibrinoid necrosis; proteinous exudate is seen in the lumen of the glomerulus. The epithelium of the proximal tubule is degenerated, partially necrotic and detached, and the distal tubule is prone to tubular pattern. The renal interstitium was congested, and microthrombosis was seen. Renal tissue is occasionally positive for novel coronavirus nucleic acid.
(vi) Other organs.
Brain tissue is congested and edematous, with some neuronal degeneration, ischemic changes and loss, and phagocytosis and satellite phenomena are seen. Perivascular interstitial mononuclear cell and lymphocyte infiltration may be seen. Focal necrosis is seen in the adrenal glands. The epithelium of esophageal, gastric and intestinal mucosa is degenerated, necrotic and detached to varying degrees, with infiltration of monocytes and lymphocytes in the lamina propria and submucosa. Cortical cell degeneration, focal hemorrhage and necrosis were seen in the adrenal glands. The testes showed varying degrees of reduced spermatogenic cell numbers and degeneration of Sertoli and Leydig cells.
