1. Bed rest, strengthen supportive treatment, ensure adequate energy and nutrition intake; pay attention to water and electrolyte balance, maintain the stability of the internal environment.
2. Closely monitor vital signs, especially finger oxygen saturation at rest and after activity, etc.
3. Monitor routine blood, urine, CRP, biochemical parameters (liver enzymes, cardiac enzymes, renal function, etc.), coagulation, arterial blood gas analysis, chest imaging, etc. according to the condition. If possible, inflammatory factor testing is available.
4. Provide standardized and effective oxygen therapy according to the condition, including nasal catheter, mask oxygen and transnasal high-flow oxygen therapy.
Antimicrobial drug therapy: Avoid blind or inappropriate use of antimicrobial drugs, especially the combination of broad-spectrum antibacterial drugs.
(iii) Antiviral therapy.
1. PF-07321332/ritonavir tablets (Paxlovid). Suitable for people who are
Adults and adolescents (12-17 years of age, weight ≥40 kg) with mild and normal disease within 5 days of onset and with high risk factors for progression to severe disease. Dosage: 300 mg PF-07321332 with 100 mg ritonavir every 12 hours for 5 days. Read the instructions carefully before use and do not combine with drugs such as pethidine and ranolazine that are highly dependent on CYP3A for clearance and whose elevated plasma concentrations can cause serious and/or life-threatening adverse reactions.
2. Monoclonal antibody: Ambavirumab/romisil monoclonal injection. The combination is used for the treatment of adults and adolescents (12-17 years of age, weight ≥40 kg) with mild and normal forms of the disease who are at high risk for progression to severe disease. Dosage: The two drugs are administered at a dose of 1000 mg each and are diluted in 100 ml of saline before administration by sequential intravenous infusion at a rate of no more than 4 ml/min, with 100 ml of saline flushed between doses. Patients were monitored clinically during the infusion and observed for at least 1 hour after the infusion was completed.
3. Intravenous injection of COVID-19 human immunoglobulin. It can be used early in the course of the disease in patients with high risk factors, high viral load and rapid disease progression. The dose is 100mg/kg for light duty, 200mg/kg for normal duty, and 400mg/kg for heavy duty, administered intravenously and may be reinfused up to 5 times the next day depending on the patient's improvement.
4. Recovery plasma for recovered patients. It can be used early in the course of the disease in patients with high risk factors, high viral load and rapid disease progression. The infusion dose is 200~500ml (4~5ml/kg), depending on the individual patient and the viral load, etc.
