1. Transmission by respiratory droplets and close contact is the main route of transmission.
2. Spread by aerosols in a relatively closed environment.
3. Infection can also be caused by contact with objects contaminated with the virus.
(iii) susceptible population.
The population is generally susceptible. Some immunity can be obtained after infection or after vaccination with the new coronavirus.
Third, pathological changes
The following are the major organ pathologic changes and novel coronavirus test results (excluding underlying disease lesions) in early cases of the novel coronavirus pneumonia outbreak.
(i) Lungs.
In the early and milder lesions, plasma and fibrin exudation and hyaline membrane formation were seen in the alveolar lumen, and inflammatory cells were predominantly monocytes and lymphocytes; capillary congestion in the alveolar septum. As the lesion progresses and worsens, large numbers of monocytes/macrophages and fibrin fill the alveolar lumen; type II alveolar epithelial cells proliferate, some cells are shed, and multinucleated giant cells are seen, occasionally with red-stained inclusion bodies. Pulmonary vasculitis, thrombosis (mixed thrombus, hyaline thrombus), and thromboembolism are easily seen. The epithelium of the bronchial mucosa at all levels of the lung is partially detached, and exudate and mucus are seen in the lumen. Small bronchioles and fine bronchioles are prone to mucus plug formation. The lung tissue is prone to focal hemorrhage, and hemorrhagic infarction, bacterial and/or fungal infections are seen. Some alveoli are hyperinflated, with alveolar septum rupture or cystic cavity formation. In cases of longer duration, sarcoidosis of alveolar lumen exudates and interstitial fibrosis of the lung are seen.
Coronavirus particles were seen in the cytoplasm of the bronchial mucosa epithelium and type II alveolar epithelial cells on electron microscopy. Immunohistochemical staining showed that some bronchial mucosal epithelium, alveolar epithelial cells and macrophages showed positive immunostaining for novel coronavirus antigens and nucleic acid detection.
(ii) Spleen, hilar lymph nodes and bone marrow.
