Novel coronaviruses have been detected in the nasopharynx and gastrointestinal mucosa and in organs such as the testes and salivary glands.
IV. Clinical characteristics
(A) Clinical manifestations.
The incubation period is 1 to 14 days, mostly 3 to 7 days.
Fever, dry cough and weakness are the main manifestations. Some patients may have nasal congestion, runny nose, sore throat, decreased or lost sense of smell and taste, conjunctivitis, myalgia and diarrhea as the main manifestations. Severely ill patients tend to develop respiratory distress and/or hypoxemia a week after the onset of the disease, which may rapidly progress to acute respiratory distress syndrome, septic shock, uncorrectable metabolic acidosis and coagulation dysfunction, and multi-organ failure in severe cases. Very few patients may also have central nervous system involvement and ischemic necrosis of the extremities. It is worth noting that heavy and critically ill patients may have moderate to low fever or even no significant fever during the course of the disease.
Patients with mild forms may present with low-grade fever, mild malaise, smell and taste disturbances, and no pneumonia. Novel coronavirus infection may also be asymptomatic. Vaccinated patients and those infected with Omicron strain are mainly asymptomatic and have mild symptoms. Those with clinical symptoms mainly show symptoms of upper respiratory tract infection such as low to moderate fever, dry throat, sore throat, nasal congestion, and runny nose.
Most patients have a good prognosis, but a few are critically ill, mostly in the elderly, those with chronic underlying diseases, late pregnancy and perinatal women, and obese people.
Some children and newborns have atypical symptoms, such as vomiting, diarrhea and other gastrointestinal symptoms, or only poor response and shortness of breath. Very few children may have multisystemic inflammatory syndrome (MIS-C), which may be similar to Kawasaki disease or atypical Kawasaki disease, toxic shock syndrome or macrophage activation syndrome, mostly in the recovery period. The main manifestations are fever with rash, nonsuppurative conjunctivitis, mucosal inflammation, hypotension or shock, coagulation disorders, and acute gastrointestinal symptoms. Once it occurs, the condition can deteriorate sharply in a short period of time.
(ii) Laboratory tests.
1. General inspection.
Some patients may have increased liver enzymes, lactate dehydrogenase, myokinase, myoglobin, troponin and ferritin. Most patients have elevated C-reactive protein (CRP) and sedimentation, and normal calcitoninogen (PCT). In severe and critically ill patients, elevated D-dimer, progressive decrease in peripheral blood lymphocytes, and elevated inflammatory factors are seen.
