Give full play to the role of community preventive health doctors, family contracted doctors, community cadres and other grid managers to conduct screening and implement home or centralized medical observation of close contacts of confirmed cases of pneumonia with novel coronavirus infection, and centralized observation sites should be clearly defined where available. Daily follow-up visits to the health status of close contacts, instructing the observation subjects to monitor changes in their own situation more sensitively and keep records. Make preparations for isolation control and transfer of patients to designated hospitals, etc.
8. Disinfection
The community should assist the CDC to disinfect the case homes, building units, unit offices, conference rooms and other epidemic points, as well as clean and disinfected public places.
(iii) Community-transmitted epidemics
The strategy of "internal prevention of spread and external prevention of export" includes the 8 measures mentioned above, as well as the 2 measures of blocking the infected area and restricting the gathering of people.
9. Blockade of infected areas: Communities classified as infected areas may take measures to blockade the infected areas if necessary, restrict the access of people, and temporarily requisition houses and transportation.
10. Restrict the gathering of people: Restrict or stop activities such as fairs, rallies and other gatherings of people in the community, and close public baths, spas, theaters, Internet cafes, KTVs, shopping malls and other public places. If necessary, suspend work, business and classes.
(1) Public places with heavy flow of people and high mobility
Suitable for shopping malls, restaurants, cinemas, KTV, Internet cafes, public baths, gymnasiums, exhibition halls, railway stations, subway stations, airports, bus stations and other public places.
Staff in public places should monitor their own health and not go to work with illness if they have suspicious symptoms of novel coronavirus infection (such as fever, cough, sore throat, chest tightness, difficulty in breathing, mild nausea, weakness, slightly poor spirit, nausea and vomiting, diarrhea, headache, heartburn, conjunctivitis, mild muscle pain in the limbs or lower back, etc.). If suspicious symptoms of novel coronavirus infection are detected, staff should ask them to leave or contact the hospital promptly.
Public use items and public contact items or parts should be cleaned and disinfected regularly.
