Diligently open windows, more ventilation, ventilation 2 to 3 times a day, no less than 30 minutes each time, need to pay attention to the temperature difference between indoor and outdoor and cause colds and the adaptation of the population. Families with conditions can also use circulating air disinfection machines, which are recommended to be used with windows and doors closed. Air conditioning filters and filters should be cleaned and disinfected monthly. The disinfection method can be used with an effective chlorine content of 250mg/L chlorine disinfection solution sprayed until wet, the role of 30 minutes. The cleaning and disinfection methods for different environments can be referred to the relevant contents of the third, fourth, fifth and sixth parts of this chapter.
(1) Reduce unnecessary going out, especially during the Spring Festival, you should visit friends and relatives and gather less, cancel the plan of going out for travel and visiting relatives, and try to rest at home; avoid going to closed, airless public places and crowded places, such as: shopping malls, stations, theaters, Internet cafes, exhibition halls, etc.
(2) Please wear a mask when you go out. Please refer to "(1) Wearing a mask" in "I. General precautions" in this chapter.
(3) Wash your hands regularly. Hand washing can be found in "(2) Washing hands regularly" in this chapter "I. General preventive measures".
(4) diligent ventilation. For details, please refer to "(3) diligent ventilation" in "I. General preventive measures" of this chapter.
(5) When coughing or sneezing, cover your mouth and nose with tissues or clothing (Figure 9) and do not spit.
(6) Reduce sharing items with others, including toothbrushes, tableware, meals, drinks, towels, bath towels, bed sheets, etc. Regularly disinfect dishes, furniture, floors, etc., and dry clothes and blankets regularly.
(7) Do not touch, buy and eat wild animals (i.e., game); avoid markets that sell live animals (poultry, wildlife, etc.).
(8) Keep supplies at home such as thermometers, medical surgical masks or N95 masks, and household disinfection supplies.
(9) During the leave, eat lightly, pay attention to nutrition and exercise properly.
(10) If you have suspected symptoms such as fever, malaise, cough, sore throat, chest tightness, dyspnea, weakness, or diarrhea, go to the fever clinic of the nearest medical institution. Medical attention can be found in Chapter 2, "Symptoms, medical care, isolation and treatment", "2.
