This guideline applies to the prevention and control of infection on public transport such as airplanes, trains, long and short-distance buses, buses, subways and ships in normal operation during the epidemic of pneumonia with novel coronavirus infection, including technical operations such as disinfection taken by staff and travelers on public transport.
Second, the staff operating guidelines
During an epidemic of novel coronavirus infection pneumonia, public transport staff need to carry out the following tasks.
(A) do a good job of object surface disinfection. Under daily circumstances, the environment on public transportation should be kept clean and sanitary, and preventive disinfection measures should be taken; after the operation of public transportation such as airplanes, trains, subways, buses and ships, internal object surfaces (such as the inside of the body, driver's steering wheel, handrails inside the car, tables and chairs, etc.) should be sprayed or wiped with chlorine disinfectant containing 250 to 500 mg/L of effective chlorine, or effective of disinfectant wipes for wiping; seat covers and other textiles should be kept clean and regularly washed and disinfected.
When vomiting occurs on public transportation, disinfectants (such as chlorinated disinfectants) or disinfectant dry towels should be used immediately to cover the vomit and disinfect the surface of the object after removing the vomit, and then use disinfectants such as Neosporin to disinfect the surface of the object.
When there are suspected or confirmed cases, under the guidance of professionals, the contaminants should be completely removed before disinfection when there are visible contaminants; when there are no visible contaminants, 1000mg/L chlorine disinfectant or 500mg/L chlorine dioxide disinfectant can be wiped or sprayed for disinfection. The ground disinfection is sprayed once from the outside to the inside, with a spray volume of 100-300ml/㎡, and then repeatedly sprayed once from the inside to the outside after the indoor disinfection is completed. The disinfection time should be no less than 30 minutes.
(B) strengthen the ventilation and air exchange. Under daily circumstances, natural ventilation or mechanical ventilation can be used. Aircraft, high-speed trains, subways and other relatively confined environments, it is recommended that the appropriate increase in air conditioning for air power to improve the number of air changes, and pay attention to regular cleaning and treatment of air conditioning filters; short-distance buses, buses and other public transport with open windows, when available, windows can be opened at low speed, but also during the stop and open the windows to maintain air circulation.
When there are suspected or confirmed cases, disinfectants such as peroxyacetic acid, chlorine-containing disinfectants, chlorine dioxide and hydrogen peroxide are selected under unmanned conditions under the guidance of professionals, using the ultra-low volume spray method.
(iii) Pay attention to personal protection. Under daily circumstances, it is recommended that staff wear medical surgical masks (or other higher level masks) and gloves; single-use gloves should not be reused, other reused gloves must be cleaned and disinfected daily, either by circulating steam or boiling for 30 minutes, or by first soaking in 500mg/L chlorine-containing disinfectant for 30 minutes, and then routine cleaning is sufficient. When there are suspected or confirmed cases, personal protection is carried out under the guidance of professionals.
(iv) Hand hygiene. Hand hygiene measures should be strengthened and hand hygiene should be performed by staff at all times. Effective alcohol-containing quick-drying hand sanitizers are available. Under special conditions, hand sanitizers containing chlorine or hydrogen peroxide may also be used; hand sanitizers should be used to wash hands under running water when there are contaminants visible to the naked eye, and then disinfected.
(v) Establishment of an emergency area. It is recommended that emergency areas be set up on public transportation, such as the back three rows of seats on airplanes, trains, and buses, where suspected or confirmed cases can be temporarily isolated when they appear.
