1）Keep the workplace clean and hygienic and air circulation, daily cleaning and disinfection. To clean mainly, disinfection as a supplement. It is recommended that the market operators selling live animals (poultry, seafood, wild animals, etc.) after the close of business each day, to do "three clean and one disinfection" - clear: the stall scales, offal, feces, chicken feathers, scraps, other garbage and other dirt clean; clean. Use water to clean the countertop, ground, drainage ditch and ground around the store; disinfection: mainly disinfect the cleaned countertop, slaughtering tools, cutting board utensils, cages, stall ground; cleaning: rinse the disinfected utensils, countertop, cutting board, etc. with clean water. In addition, it is recommended that the market be cleaned regularly, emptied of any live poultry (livestock) stockpile; thoroughly remove feces, garbage and debris; dredge sewers, and clean the stall floor, walls, and the environment around the store; and thoroughly disinfect after a comprehensive cleaning.
When disinfecting, for the surface of objects with more human contact, use 500mg/L chlorine-containing disinfectant for spraying or wiping disinfection, and then wash with water after 30 minutes of action. For objects that are not resistant to corrosion, 75% alcohol or 0.1% benzalkonium bromide (Neosporin) can be used for wiping and disinfection, and safety should be observed when using it. For large areas of floors and walls, a chlorine disinfectant solution with an effective chlorine level of 500-1000mg/L can be used for spraying, the amount of spraying should be wet and without dripping, and the action time should be not less than 30 minutes.
(2) Garbage and feces should be concentrated for harmless treatment, and garbage transporters and hand-push garbage collection vehicles should be stored and transported in an airtight manner to improve garbage collection, transportation and treatment. Clean garbage daily to reduce the density of flies.
(3) strengthen vector biological control. Install and implement anti-rodent, anti-mosquito and anti-fly facilities for use, improve the farmers' market vector biological control facilities; market ground hard bottom, ditches to be dredged, potholes ground to be filled, wall holes and cracks to be plugged and wiped, sewers and ditches to be sealed, sewer openings to install anti-rodent facilities; processing, sales, storage of directly imported food premises rooms to be equipped with screens, screen doors, wind curtain machines, screen covers, glass cabinets and other anti-fly facilities;. In and around the market to be placed in accordance with the relevant requirements of poisonous rodent house, regularly put poisonous rodent bait to reduce rodent density; regular inspections to remove all types of small containers of stagnant water, check the market flower store stagnant water to reduce the breeding of mosquitoes and insects.
4) Both shopping at the market and market staff need to wear masks, and try to wear medical masks or medical surgical masks. Keep a safe distance of more than 1 meter when interacting with others in the market; stay away from wild animals. Do not touch, buy and eat wild animals and try to avoid stalls selling live poultry, wild animals, etc.
In this outbreak of novel coronavirus pneumonia, many of the most seriously ill patients are middle-aged and elderly. For elderly people with underlying diseases, once infected, they are very prone to critical illness, multi-organ failure and even death, so they should be better protected.
The respiratory tract of the elderly is more sensitive and fragile, and products that are less irritating to the respiratory tract of the elderly should be chosen for disinfection. Preferably, use 75% alcohol wipes or alcohol wipes. You can also use 84 disinfectant or other chlorine-based disinfectants to wipe down furniture and floors. However, if the elderly are allergic to chlorine or suffer from respiratory irritation, they should not use it. In addition, a variety of smoked white wine, vinegar, moxibustion and other "prescriptions" spread on the Internet can not achieve the effect of disinfection, and may even cause respiratory discomfort. These methods are equivalent to artificially aggravating indoor air pollution. For the elderly with sensitive respiratory tract or a history of asthma, it is likely to induce respiratory disease and is not recommended.
The elderly should be allowed to stay in the appropriate room temperature to avoid other adverse effects on the body caused by too low or too high room temperature. At the same time, attention should be paid to opening windows regularly to improve indoor air quality and reduce the amount of viruses that may be present. It is recommended to increase the number of ventilation times and reduce the ventilation time, while paying attention to keeping warm.
Special times advocate frequent hand washing to prevent viral infections. However, elderly people have degenerated sebaceous gland function and are prone to dryness, so washing hands regularly is bound to aggravate chapped skin. It is recommended that hand cream be placed by the sink so that they can apply it after washing their hands.
Older adults love to walk around during the New Year holidays. This also increases their risk of being exposed to the virus. An infection in the elderly could lead to serious consequences, so during an outbreak, do not gather for meals or multiple gatherings, and do not host friends or relatives who may be from key outbreak areas. If special needs arise, visit and care for the elderly at home. Visitors should wear masks on the road, take off their coats, change their shoes, wash their hands at the door, and disinfect anything they bring with alcohol before doing anything else to avoid long-term homebound frail seniors being infected by outside visitors.
Various localities have also introduced various policies to reduce the number of elderly people going out, for example, Sichuan Province recently issued a notice requiring all mahjong parlors to suspend operations. It is recommended to spend more time with the elderly at home during the Spring Festival and to actively persuade them to reduce unnecessary going out activities. If they must go out, help them wear the right mask. Ordinary cotton masks have no protective effect. It is recommended that medical surgical masks be used as a priority, followed by medical care masks. However, the use of protective masks such as N95 or KN95 is not recommended for the elderly. These masks have a high respiratory resistance, and after long-term wear, symptoms such as chest tightness, shortness of breath and breathlessness can easily occur, and in serious cases, they can even lead to heart failure.
