1) Place the isolated person in a well-ventilated, separate room. If a separate room is not available, the caregiver should also maintain a distance of at least 1 meter from close contacts.
(2) Family members should wear masks when entering the isolated person's activity space. Deny visits from people inside or outside the family.
3) Limit the range of movement of isolated persons and ensure that shared areas (toilets and bathrooms, etc.) are well ventilated.
4) Do not spit, and cover your mouth and nose with a tissue or elbow sleeve when coughing or sneezing.
5) Wash your hands regularly. When washing hands with soap and water, it is best to use disposable hand wipes. Minimize and avoid contact with supplies used by close contacts (cell phones, remote controls, utensils and towels, etc.), disinfect public supplies (tables, chairs and door handles, etc.), and recommend the use of chlorinated disinfectants and peroxyacetic acid disinfectants.
6) Wear good disposable gloves and masks to clean and disinfect the home environment, wet mop the floor with chlorinated disinfectant daily, and seal and dispose of garbage properly. Keep the home environment clean.
Subjects under observation should seek immediate medical attention as soon as they develop symptoms, especially of acute respiratory infections, including fever, cough, sore throat, and difficulty breathing or diarrhea, as recommended below.
1) Isolated persons should wear a mask and keep more than 1 meter away from other people once they develop symptoms (this should be done for both transportation or medical facilities).
(2) Public transportation should be avoided as much as possible, you can call 120 or drive to the hospital, pay attention to open the car windows to keep ventilation, and disinfect the private car as required when needed.
(3) All personnel who come into contact with the sick person and medical personnel should wash their hands promptly.
4) Any part of the vehicle contaminated by respiratory secretions or body fluids should be disinfected promptly (1 part bleach + 99 parts water).
