Seniors should try not to use crowded public transportation when traveling. It is best to walk, take a taxi or have a family member drive them. It is recommended to avoid crowds and choose places with fewer people and good ventilation, such as wearing a mask to walk in a park or outdoors. When you see someone you know, don't take off your mask and keep a distance of more than 1 meter to say hello. For seniors who like to visit food markets, three "don'ts" should be advised: don't go to markets that are not formal and have inadequate disinfection measures; don't buy poultry and seafood from unknown sources; and don't touch live poultry unprotected. Although no formal meat and seafood products have been found to transmit the virus, it is important to note that both meat and eggs must be cooked before eating. Many older adults are frugal and may use masks repeatedly. Be sure to advise that disposable medical masks should only be used once and teach older adults the proper way to put on and take off the mask. For more information, see "(1) Wearing a mask" in Chapter 3, "1. Universal precautions.
During the epidemic, it is recommended that older adults should start with a balanced diet. If there are no special dietary contraindications for the elderly, the intake of high-quality protein (eggs, soy products, fish, etc.), fresh vegetables and seasonal fruits can all be increased appropriately. However, in fact, many elderly people themselves suffer from a variety of diseases, the function of the whole body organs decreases, coupled with the usual chewing and swallowing function decreases, it is difficult to achieve the daily caloric and nutritional needs, resulting in wasting and malnutrition, thus the immune function decreases and more easily infected with viruses. Therefore, the elderly must properly improve their nutritional reserves through proper nutritional supplementation. Given that older adults have limited mobility and sometimes find it difficult to prepare nutritionally complete foods, they can also choose to take oral nutritional supplements for easier, convenient and safe nutritional supplementation. You can choose one of each of the three types of nutritional supplements and use them together: (1) oral whole nutritional supplements; (2) multivitamin-mineral supplements; and (3) high-quality protein supplements.
Some elderly people are easily misled by marketing rumors and buy some so-called "anti-viral" foods. In fact, all foods and supplements on the market that claim to prevent viruses lack clinical evidence, such as garlic, mushrooms, strawberries, red wine, lactoferrin, etc. Although they have some nutritional value to the human body, they are not anti-viral. However, like strawberries such as a balanced nutritional fruit in season, if the elderly "like", eat more is good.
If you have to go to the hospital, it is important that family members as well as the elderly are protected before going to the hospital. Wear a mask and wash your hands promptly. While in the hospital, be careful not to touch the outside of the mask, don't touch it, and wash your hands after taking off the mask. Also be careful to protect others by keeping your distance from people and remembering to block with your elbows when sneezing and coughing.
Children are also one of the susceptible groups, and the main transmission routes of infection are droplets and contact. Conjunctival transmission has also been reported, so infants and children should be more protected.
Infants cannot wear masks, so passive protection is the norm for infants under 1 year of age. Infants need to be dressed appropriately and not overly warmed or cooled. Do not feed your child after trying or chewing food with your mouth (including not feeding your child after blowing on cool food with your mouth) and do not share utensils with your child. Be sure to disinfect your child's belongings, toys and utensils regularly. If unnecessary, try to go out without your child, especially not to public places or confined spaces; try not to take public transportation when you go out and stay as far away from other people as possible (keep a distance of at least 1 meter). Wash your hands carefully before playing with your child. Parents should change their clothes and wash their hands before holding their children after coming home from a trip. The home should be regularly ventilated, and when it is ventilated, the child can be moved to another room to avoid catching a cold.
Caregivers need to take the initiative to wear a mask, do not kiss the baby, and do not cough, sneeze, or exhale into the baby. If you have to cough or sneeze be sure to cover your mouth and nose with a tissue (if it is too late to use a tissue, then apply your arm to completely cover your mouth and nose and then wash your arm thoroughly) and throw the contaminated tissue into a closed bin (bucket) immediately and wash your hands carefully with running water. Parents who have respiratory illnesses or symptoms such as fever, runny nose, coughing and sneezing should also wear a mask at home and isolate themselves properly at home.
Children should avoid going outside during this novel coronavirus pneumonia epidemic; if they must go outside, they should wear a mask when they go out, and they should wear a mask in hospitals, confined spaces, and crowded places, but not in ventilated spaces with low population density. In addition, children should be instructed to keep a distance of more than 1 meter from other people in confined spaces and crowded places; develop good hygiene habits, do not touch everywhere, and do not touch or rub the mouth, nose, eyes and other parts with unclean hands. The method of wearing mask and precautions can be found in the section of "(1) Wearing Mask" in Chapter 3 "1. General Precautions".
For children who do not like to wear masks, first of all, parents should buy disposable medical masks for children that are suitable for children, these masks will have some patterns or colors that are more acceptable to children. For younger children, parents can play role-playing, games and stories, and wear them together with the child in front of a mirror, and don't rush at first, but try a few more times to make the child feel less resistant and unfamiliar with the mask. When wearing the mask, help the child adjust the position of the mask to make the child more comfortable and less resistant. If children are unable to wear a mask, they should stay at home as much as possible, reduce going out, practice good hand hygiene, develop good and safe eating habits, and have parents do a good job of personal protection and home cleaning and disinfection ventilation to indirectly protect their children.
After children go home and take off their clothes, if there are conditions, they can use ultraviolet light or alcohol to spray their coats; if there are no such conditions, they can also take off their clothes and put them in a fixed position and change their shoes after entering the house. Then the child should be guided to wash hands carefully, hand washing methods and precautions can be found in the universal precautions section; after hand washing is completed, the face can be washed, and if the child cooperates, the nasal cavity can be washed and the mouth rinsed, and the mouth rinsed with either light salt water or water, and the child can spit it out after rinsing. However, it is worth noting that ultraviolet light can cause damage to the skin and eyes, and the ozone produced can also stimulate the respiratory tract, causing sore throat, chest tightness and coughing, which can also lead to dizziness and headache, so all people must leave the disinfection room during UV irradiation to avoid damage, and should be ventilated for some time after disinfection. In addition, the disinfection area of home UV disinfection lamps is related to their power.
Children may be seen in the emergency room if they present with fever symptoms at 39°C. ①Infants under 3 months old with a temperature >40℃ should be seen in the hospital promptly. ②Infants 3 to 6 months old, if their body temperature is below 38℃ and they eat milk and respond mentally as usual, they can monitor their body temperature and observe the general condition of the infant before considering whether to go to the hospital; if their body temperature exceeds 38℃, they should seek medical attention at any time; even if they do not have the above-mentioned conditions, but have fever for more than 24 hours, they should go to the hospital outpatient clinic. ③For children 6 months to 2 years old, if the child has only a slightly poor mental response to the fever, but plays freely after the temperature has dropped to normal, the child may be observed; if the fever lasts more than 24 hours, the child may go to the hospital for consultation. In addition to temperature, if the child has poor mental response (weak mental response even after the fever subsides), crying and difficult to soothe, decreased milk intake, vomiting, diarrhea, low urination, joint and/or muscle pain, headache, chills, coughing and wheezing, difficulty breathing, and convulsions, go to the hospital. Another easy way to determine this is to see if the child has signs or symptoms that are significantly different from usual, in addition to fever, and if so, seek immediate medical attention.
