1. people who live, study, work with the case, or otherwise have close contact, such as working in close proximity to the case or sharing the same classroom or living in the same house as the case.
2. medical staff, family members or other persons who have similar close contact with the case, such as direct treatment and care of the case, visiting the patient or staying in the confined environment where the case is located, other patients and their companions in the same ward of the case.
3. travel on the same means of transport as the case and have close contact with personnel, including those who have cared for the patient on the transport, the patient's fellow passengers (family members, colleagues, friends, etc.), and other passengers and crew members found to be in close contact with the patient after investigation and assessment.
4. The site investigator investigates and then evaluates the personnel who are deemed to be in contact with other close contacts.
Third, community prevention and control strategies and measures
(i) No cases found in the community
Implementing the strategy of "external prevention and importation", specific measures include organizational mobilization, health education, information, management of returnees from infected areas, environmental health management, and material preparation.
1.Organizational mobilization
Communities should establish an organizational system for the prevention and control of pneumonia outbreaks of new coronavirus infections, with street (township) and community (village) cadres, community health service centers and family doctors as the main focus, and encourage the participation of residents and volunteers to form a combination of full-time and part-time work teams, implement grid-based, carpet management, responsibility for the implementation of full coverage of the community (village), building (natural village), family, and the implementation of prevention and control Measures.
2. Health education
Make full use of a variety of means to carry out targeted pneumonia prevention and control knowledge of new coronavirus infection, actively advocate hygiene, eliminate bad habits, abandon littering, spitting and other uncivilized behavior, to create "everyone is the first person responsible for their own health" "my health I am in charge "The good atmosphere. Make the public fully understand the health knowledge, grasp the key points of protection, develop hand hygiene, more ventilation, keep clean good habits, reduce travel, avoid attending rallies, parties, take public transportation or go to crowded places to do a good job of protection, wear a mask, avoid contact with animals (especially wild animals), birds or their droppings.
