At present, the survival time of novel coronavirus at room temperature is unknown, but it has great similarity to SARS virus and many analogies can be drawn: for example, it is heat sensitive and can be inactivated at 56°C for 30 minutes, while organic solvents and disinfectants such as 75% alcohol, peracetic acid, chlorine-containing disinfectants (except chlorhexidine) are effective in killing novel coronavirus, and UV light can also inactivate the virus.
The new coronavirus pneumonia outbreak started in Wuhan and has spread rapidly since then, and is now spreading rapidly in many countries around the world. As of 24:00 Beijing time on March 10, the National Health and Welfare Commission received cumulative reports from 31 provinces (autonomous regions and municipalities directly under the Central Government) and the Xinjiang Production and Construction Corps that there were 16,145 confirmed cases (including 4,492 severe cases), 61,475 cumulative cured cases, 3,158 cumulative deaths, 80,778 cumulative reported confirmed cases, and 285 existing suspected cases. A total of 675,886 close contacts have been traced, and 14,607 close contacts are still under medical observation. There were 13 new confirmed cases in Hubei (13 cases in Wuhan), 1,471 new cured cases (1,212 cases in Wuhan), 22 new deaths (19 cases in Wuhan), and 15,671 confirmed cases (14,514 cases in Wuhan), including 4,412 serious cases (4,217 cases in Wuhan). There were 49,056 cumulative cured cases (Wuhan 33,041 cases), 3,046 cumulative deaths (Wuhan 2,423 cases), and 67,773 cumulative confirmed cases (Wuhan 49,978 cases). There were 6 new suspected cases (6 in Wuhan) and 198 existing suspected cases (192 in Wuhan). 10 new confirmed cases were reported from 0-24 March 10 (6 in Beijing, 2 in Shanghai, 1 in Shandong and 1 in Gansu). As of 24:00 on March 10, a total of 79 confirmed cases were reported from overseas. A total of 177 confirmed cases were received from Hong Kong, Macao and Taiwan: 120 cases in Hong Kong SAR (65 discharged, 3 deaths), 10 cases in Macao SAR (10 discharged), and 47 cases in Taiwan (17 discharged, 1 death).
The country's daily new confirmed cases and new suspected cases remained in double digits for five consecutive days, except for Wuhan in the last five days, two new confirmed cases locally, the epidemic overall remains at a low level, the prevention and control situation continues to improve. However, the number of confirmed cases in Hubei and Wuhan is still high, the task of prevention and control of the epidemic is still arduous and heavy, and the rapid development of the epidemic abroad brings uncertainty, so we must make further efforts, do our best, continue to grasp the two positions of hospitals and communities, and be confident to overcome the epidemic.
As of 21:00 Beijing time on March 8, 74 countries and regions worldwide were affected by the outbreak. There are 26,210 cumulative confirmed cases outside of China, 22,522 existing confirmed cases, 549 cumulative deaths, and 3,139 cumulative cured cases. With the overall number of infections in China gradually decreasing, the novel coronavirus is now spreading rapidly in other parts of the world mainly outside of China, especially in countries such as South Korea, Italy and Iran, where more than 5,000 cases have been confirmed. The World Health Organization (WHO) officially announced at a press conference in Geneva on March 11 that the new coronavirus pneumonia (COVID-19) was classified as a global pandemic, the last time it was also classified as a global pandemic was influenza A (H1N1) in 2009, which was the first time coronavirus infection was assessed as a global pandemic. SARS in 2003 did not reach this level either. The new coronavirus has entered global pandemic status. This is another escalation of the epidemic trend of the new coronavirus following the WHO's declaration on January 31, Beijing time that this new coronavirus outbreak in China constitutes a public health emergency of international concern (Public Health Emergency of International Concern, PHEIC). In a March 11 release, WHO noted that "in the past two weeks, the number of COVID-19 cases outside China has increased 13-fold and the number of countries affected by the outbreak has increased two-fold. There are now more than 118,000 confirmed cases in 114 countries worldwide, with a cumulative total of 4,291 unfortunate deaths. In the coming weeks, we believe that the number of confirmed cases, the number of deaths and the number of countries affected by the outbreak will climb further ...... Therefore, we conduct an assessment that COVID-19 can be considered a pandemic."
With the development of the epidemic, people have gradually become more aware of the harmful effects of the virus. As with SARS, the new coronavirus is a general susceptibility of the population. Young adults are less ill after infection, and may only show symptoms such as low fever and malaise; the elderly and those with underlying diseases are more ill after infection, and even show heavy or critical illness, with a poorer prognosis; children are susceptible to the new coronavirus, but have relatively mild symptoms after infection, and are much less likely to become seriously ill. The virus easily attacks human lung tissue and causes "pneumonia". Further research is needed to determine whether infection is immunogenic; the proportion of true asymptomatic infections is not known, but is relatively rare and is not a major driver of transmission.
Lung and immune system damage is predominant after neo-coronavirus infection. Other organs vary depending on the underlying disease and are mostly secondary to damage.2020 From February 16 to 24, 2020, a team from Huazhong University of Science and Technology completed the pathologic autopsy of the remains of nine cases of new coronavirus pneumonia. A report on the gross observations of the systematic autopsy of dead bodies with novel coronavirus pneumonia was published in the February 2020 advance issue of the Journal of Forensic Medicine. The report showed that the lesions of the new coronavirus infection remained focused on the lungs, considering that the ground glass-like shadow seen on imaging corresponded to the grayish-white lesions of the alveoli seen with the naked eye, suggesting that new coronavirus pneumonia mainly caused an inflammatory response characterized by deep airway and alveolar damage; the fibrosis and solid changes in the lungs were not as severe as those caused by SARS, while the exudative response was more pronounced than that of SARS, which may be related to the fact that this patient had only 15 days from diagnosis to death and the disease duration This may be related to the shorter duration of illness from diagnosis to death in this patient.
In addition, regarding the nervous system, the report concluded that cerebral edema and mild atrophy of the cerebral cortex were seen on visual inspection. Combined with the clinical data, the patient was old, had multiple cerebral infarcts and sequelae of cerebrovascular disease, no infection-specific manifestations were seen on visual inspection of the brain, and whether the virus invaded the central nervous system is to be verified histopathologically. Further studies are needed to determine whether there are signs of damage to the myocardium and epicardium, kidneys, spleen, and gastrointestinal organs associated with viral infection.
Usually the virus is transmitted in several ways: first, droplet transmission, through droplets generated by coughing, sneezing, and talking into susceptible mucosal surfaces; second, contact transmission: touching one's mouth, nose, or eyes after touching something an infected person has touched leads to virus transmission; third, aerosol transmission: the possibility of transmission exists when the pathogen is exposed to high concentrations of aerosols in a relatively closed environment for a long time; and Viral nucleic acids can be detected in the stool of patients with confirmed novel coronavirus, suggesting the possible presence of the virus, but there is no clear evidence of a gastrointestinal mode of transmission. For novel coronaviruses, isolation and protection measures for each of these routes should be done.
The "Treatment protocol for novel coronavirus pneumonia (trial version 7)" issued by the National Health and Wellness Commission specifies that droplet transmission via the respiratory tract is the main route of novel coronavirus transmission. Infected persons cough, sneeze and talk when they discharge secretions and droplets, and susceptible persons inhale and become infected, but droplets have a limited distance of transmission in the air, and the activity of the virus decreases significantly after 2 hours. However, it has been suggested that novel coronaviruses can also be transmitted through aerosols, where droplets are mixed in the air to form aerosols that can remain in the air for a long period of time and be inhaled by humans and infected. The environment where the risk of aerosol exposure is high is in hospitals, where it is generated during operations such as tracheal intubation/extraction, chest compressions, bronchoscopy, and nebulizer therapy. In addition, droplets can settle on the surfaces of surrounding objects or through indirect contact, and the virus enters the body through the eyes, nasal and oral mucosa. Currently, some studies have isolated novel coronaviruses in the feces and urine of infected patients, and attention should be paid to fecal and urine contamination of the environment causing aerosol or contact transmission.
Although respiratory droplet transmission is the main route of transmission of novel coronavirus, contact transmission is also one of the routes of transmission of novel coronavirus. Direct contact transmission refers to the infection of susceptible people who come into contact with various body secretions of patients, such as saliva, tears, urine, vomit and other secretions and excretions.
Although there are no experimental studies to determine the concentration of the virus in body fluids and excretions of patients, the general public is still advised to avoid contact with the secretions and excretions of patients, or to avoid contact with all secretions and excretions of others for precautionary reasons. In case of inadvertent contact, disinfection should be carried out promptly. Many studies have shown that there is indirect contact transmission of novel coronaviruses. Some studies have shown that novel coronavirus can survive for several hours on smooth surfaces such as door handles and elevator buttons, and even for several days if the temperature (22-25°C) and humidity (40%-50%) are suitable, suggesting attention to environmental disinfection.
