(10) For patients with inadequate diet, the elderly and chronic wasting underlying diseases, it is recommended to increase commercial enteral nutrition (special medical food) with no less than 500 additional calories per day.
Adhere to a reasonable diet and improve your resistance through balanced nutrition. Refer to the "Dietary Guidelines for Chinese Residents (2016)" issued by the Chinese Nutrition Society for nutritional "prescriptions". Under the current special circumstances, the following entries are also applicable to the general population.
(1) energy to be sufficient, cereal and potatoes to ensure that the daily intake of 250 ~ 400g, including rice, flour, miscellaneous grains such as corn, buckwheat and potatoes, etc.. Can moderate consumption of milk, class (preferably yogurt products), soy, in food, adhere to a daily egg, milk and milk products 300g, so that more than the usual 20g of high-quality protein, to ensure that "resistance. Do not eat wild animals.
(2) Eat fresh vegetables and fruits every day, not less than 5 kinds of vegetables per day, preferably more than 500g. Half of them are dark-colored fruits and vegetables. Fruits to ensure 200 to 350g. fresh fruits and vegetables, as well as nuts and other plant crops rich in B vitamins, vitamin C, vitamin E, etc., has a strong antioxidant, immune regulating effect.
(3) Drink plenty of water in moderation, 1500 to 2000ml per day, many times in small amounts and effectively; you can drink warm boiled water or light tea. Before and after meals, vegetable soup, fish soup, chicken soup, etc. is also a good choice.
(4) Moderate increase in the intake of high quality fats, including cooking with vegetable oils rich in n-9 fatty acids and hard fruits and oily foods such as peanuts, walnuts, etc., the total fat energy supply ratio of 25% to 30% of the total dietary energy.
(5) Ensure adequate water intake, 1500 to 2000ml per day, and drink water in small amounts many times and effectively; you can drink warm boiled water or light tea. Before and after meals, vegetable soup, fish soup, chicken soup, etc. are also good choices.
(6) Don't touch, buy and eat wild animals; pay attention to the kitchen food handling to separate raw and cooked food, animal food should be cooked and boiled thoroughly; family meals, the implementation of meal sharing system or the use of common spoons, common chopsticks and other measures to avoid mutual infection with family members. Prohibit smoking and alcohol, and avoid spicy and stimulating foods.
(7) Fresh vegetables, fruits and nuts and other plant crops are rich in B vitamins, vitamin C and vitamin E, which have strong antioxidant and immune regulating effects and should be supplemented with attention. Nutrient supplements can also be added in appropriate amounts.
(8) Soybeans and products, mushroom food, goji berries, astragalus and other foods contain flavonoids, betaine and other antioxidant substances, lean meat is rich in protein, L-carnitine are helpful in strengthening resistance.
(9) Those with poor appetite who do not eat enough should pay attention to the supplementation of B vitamins and vitamin C, vitamin A, vitamin D and other micronutrients.
