(A) medical staff through the staff special channel into the clean area, carefully wash their hands after wearing medical protective masks, disposable hats or cloth caps, change of work shoes and socks, the conditions can be replaced by hand-brushing clothes and pants.
(ii) Wear work clothes before entering the potentially contaminated area, and wear gloves to enter the potentially contaminated area if the skin on the hands is broken or suspected of having damage.
(C) before entering the contaminated area, take off work clothes for protective clothing or isolation clothing, plus wear disposable hats and disposable medical surgical masks (wearing a total of two layers of hats, masks), protective glasses, gloves, shoe covers.
Second, medical personnel leave the isolation area to take off protective equipment procedures
(A) medical personnel should disinfect their hands before leaving the contaminated area, in turn, take off protective glasses, outer disposable medical surgical mask and outer disposable hat, protective clothing or isolation clothing, shoe covers, gloves and other items, divided into special containers, hand disinfection again, enter the potentially contaminated area, change to wear work clothes.
(b) Before leaving the potentially contaminated area and entering the clean area, wash hands and hand disinfection, take off work clothes, wash hands and hand disinfection.
(C) before leaving the clean area, hand washing and hand disinfection, remove the lining disposable cap or cloth cap, lining medical protective mask, shower and dressing, and oral, nasal and external ear canal cleaning.
(iv) Wash and disinfect hands immediately after each contact with the patient.
(E) disposable medical surgical masks, medical protective masks, protective clothing or isolation clothing and other protective supplies are contaminated with patient blood, body fluids, secretions, etc. should be replaced immediately.
(vi) personal hygiene disposal should be carried out before work, and attention to respiratory and mucous membrane protection.
Patients who unfortunately develop novel coronavirus pneumonia not only suffer physically, but also undergo tremendous psychological stress. Due to the lack of specific treatment and the highly contagious nature of the disease, patients not only face an unprecedented fear of death, but also fear for the safety of family and friends with whom they have had contact, and are plunged into a deep sense of self-blame. For each patient, this is a sudden life crisis. At this time, if you feel anxiety, fear, anger, helplessness, etc., are normal emotional reactions, the first thing patients should do is to adapt to the hospital environment and treatment process, trust the medical staff, and actively cooperate with treatment; then try to control negative emotions, such as pessimism, self-blame, self-hatred, tension; promote positive emotions, such as self-confidence, optimism, courage, etc.
