(5) Strengthen health monitoring and material stockpiling. To have a person to implement the morning and afternoon checkups, do a good job of tracking the absence from school due to illness and the registration of the cause of the disease, and report in a timely manner when abnormalities such as an unusual increase in cases of respiratory infectious diseases are detected. Strengthen the stockpile of protective supplies, the school nurse's office to stock a certain number of medical masks, disposable gloves, hand sanitizer and cold medicine.
(6) to carry out various forms of health education and popularize the knowledge of prevention and control of respiratory infectious diseases.
(7) When symptoms such as fever, malaise, dry cough and chest tightness occur, you should immediately wear a mask and seek medical attention in a timely manner to avoid attending classes with illness. When a student or teacher is diagnosed with novel coronavirus infection, his or her close contacts should be placed under medical observation for 14 days. Schools and child care institutions are responsible for home visits to contact students who have left school or school to learn about their daily health status. Implement a daily and zero reporting system according to the requirements of disease prevention and control agencies to keep track of the daily increase or decrease of students with cases. Cooperate with the health and wellness department to handle the epidemic and other tasks.
(2) Nursing homes
During the disease epidemic, it is recommended that the nursing home implement closed management, in principle, do not receive visits from outsiders, the elderly can not leave the hospital to go out, no longer accept new elderly residents, the elderly who must go out should be closely observed after returning to the nursing home.
Daily preventive measures:
(1) Ensure that staff and nursing seniors master personal protective measures, hand hygiene requirements, sanitation and health habits to prevent novel coronavirus pneumonia, avoid sharing personal belongings, pay attention to ventilation, and implement disinfection measures.
2) Establish health records of the elderly and staff, and conduct daily morning checkups and health registration.
(3) Once the staff appear fever, cough, mild nausea, weakness, slightly poor mental, nausea and vomiting, diarrhea, headache, panic, chest tightness, conjunctivitis, mild limb or back muscle pain and other suspicious symptoms of new coronavirus infection, should immediately stop working and go to the hospital for medical examination and investigation, to exclude new coronavirus infection and other infectious diseases before re-entering the workplace.
(4) Establish a registration system for visitors. If visitors have suspicious symptoms of novel coronavirus infection, their visits should be refused. All foreign visitors should wear medical surgical masks. Those with suspicious symptoms should refuse to visit.
(5) ventilation to keep the indoor air fresh. Open the windows for at least 30 minutes every half day; if it is not suitable to open the windows for ventilation, mechanical ventilation equipment should be equipped to ensure that there is no indoor odor; during the epidemic season of respiratory infectious diseases, indoor ventilation should be strengthened, and if necessary, it is appropriate to use circulating air disinfection machines and other air disinfection; regularly clean and disinfect the air conditioning ventilation system. When opening windows in winter, attention should be paid to avoid colds caused by the large difference between indoor and outdoor temperatures.
