The list of designated hospitals and fever clinics can be found on the official websites of provincial and municipal health care commissions, or you can check the nearby fever clinics and medical treatment designated hospitals under the "fever clinics" section on the home page of the State Council client (Figure 2).
(3) The principles of medical treatment for patients with other diseases during the epidemic
In principle, during an epidemic, people should go to hospitals as little as possible or not at all unless they must seek immediate medical attention for patients with acute and critical illnesses; if they must seek medical attention, they should choose a medical institution nearby that can meet the demand and has a low outpatient volume; if they must go to a hospital, they can have only necessary and urgent medical tests and medical operations done, and other items and operations should be made up at a later date if possible; if they can choose the department to visit, they should avoid If possible, avoid fever clinics, emergency departments, etc.
There are three conditions that must be immediately sought: first, the emergence of medical emergencies, such as the elderly or people with underlying diseases suddenly appear panic, dizziness, chest tightness, etc., must immediately seek medical attention; second, surgical emergencies, such as the emergence of severe pancreatitis, intestinal perforation or appendicitis and other acute abdominal diseases, must immediately go to the hospital; third, children with fever, if children have a fever of more than 39 ℃, bad spirit, and poor appetite, go to the hospital, lest the disease develop into a serious one.
For tumor patients, different types of tumor patients have different medical consultations: ① Routine review patients: for patients with routine review of malignant tumors, it is recommended to slightly delay the review without affecting the prognosis of the disease; the review advocates network consultation and suggests that patients can postpone the review if they have no special discomfort and try to avoid hospitalization for review. ②Patients with elective surgery: patients with benign tumors and patients in remission of malignant tumors after comprehensive treatment are recommended to moderately defer surgical treatment; for patients with progressive malignant tumors, surgical treatment should be carried out under risk-controllable conditions after comprehensive and detailed assessment of patients' physical status and surgical risks. ③Patients in chemotherapy period: For patients who are old and frail and have poor immune status with repeated chemotherapy, the dose of chemotherapy drugs can be moderately reduced or the chemotherapy cycle can be extended without significantly affecting the efficacy. For patients with postoperative adjuvant chemotherapy, it is recommended that chemotherapy can be performed at the local hospital or the outpatient clinic of the original hospital as scheduled, and that chemotherapy can be moderately delayed under the premise that good communication with the physician has little impact on the prognosis of the tumor. Patients with radiotherapy: It is recommended to continue treatment in an orderly manner according to the overall arrangement of the hospital, and synchronous chemotherapy can be moderately delayed. For patients who are ready to start radiotherapy, under the premise of not affecting the prognosis of the tumor, radiotherapy should be moderately delayed according to the arrangement of the doctor in charge. ⑤ Immunotherapy patients: Immunotherapy is still possible after rigorous evaluation. If adverse reactions occur, the medical team should be informed as soon as possible, please do not cope with the occurrence of adverse reactions alone.
(4) Patients with severe headache or even epileptic seizure must go to hospital; (5) Increasing eating disorder is a manifestation of tumor progression and must go to hospital for treatment; (6) Severe vomiting and diarrhea, no matter what the cause is, will lead to dehydration and endanger life, so it is necessary to go to hospital immediately to find out the cause and give corresponding symptomatic treatment; (7) Sudden appearance of urinary and fecal dysfunction requires immediate medical attention. It is necessary to go to the hospital immediately to find the cause; ⑧ other serious symptoms.
Patients with stable chronic diseases should strengthen self-management, treat and manage existing chronic diseases as required. Prepare all medications, take them on time, closely observe the change of symptoms and progress of the chronic disease they have, and strengthen the contact with the doctor. Patients with hypertension should have their blood pressure measured daily. If one of the critical conditions occurs, such as systolic blood pressure ≥ 180 mmHg and/or diastolic blood pressure ≥ 110 mmHg; change in consciousness, severe headache or dizziness, nausea and vomiting, blurred vision, eye pain, palpitations, chest tightness, etc., please contact your doctor or go to the hospital promptly. Patients with diabetes should self-monitor their blood glucose and blood pressure. If you have blood glucose ≥ 16.7 mmol/L or blood sugar ≤ 3.9 mmol/L; systolic blood pressure ≥ 180 mmHg and/or diastolic blood pressure ≥ 110 mmHg; change in consciousness or behavior, or other sudden abnormal conditions, such as a sudden and abrupt decrease in vision, please contact your doctor or go to the hospital promptly.
When going to the hospital, you should learn as much as possible about the proposed medical institution in advance through the Internet or by phone, make appointments and preparations, and familiarize yourself with the hospital department layout and step-by-step procedures to reduce the consultation time. Patients and accompanying family members should wear a medical surgical mask or N95 mask throughout the journey to the hospital and in the hospital. If possible, avoid taking public transportation to the hospital. Maintain hand hygiene at all times and have a portable alcohol-based hand sanitizer available. Keep as much distance as possible between people (at least 1 meter) while on the road and in the hospital. If transportation is contaminated while on the road, it is recommended that all surfaces contaminated with respiratory secretions or body fluids be disinfected with a chlorinated disinfectant or peracetic acid disinfectant. Avoid touching your mouth, nose and eyes with your hands as much as possible. When sneezing or coughing, cover your mouth and nose with a tissue or elbow. Try to use hand disinfectant after touching hospital items such as hospital door handles, curtains, doctors' white coats, etc. If you cannot disinfect your hands in time, do not touch your mouth, nose or eyes with your hands. During hospital visits, reduce the length of stay in the hospital as much as possible.
After returning home from the hospital, change your clothes immediately, wash your hands carefully with running water, wash your clothes as soon as possible, and treat them with 84 disinfectant first if possible. If suspicious symptoms (including fever, cough, sore throat, chest tightness, dyspnea, malaise, nausea and vomiting, diarrhea, conjunctivitis, muscle aches, etc.) appear, seek prompt medical attention according to your condition and inform the receiving physician of your activity history for the past 2 weeks.
Home isolation is the main non-pharmaceutical intervention and low-cost measure to contain an epidemic, and personal protective measures such as self-isolation are one of the effective measures to control the epidemic of infectious diseases. As the epidemic progresses, specific isolation measures do not vary from place to place, and home isolation should be carried out according to the specific requirements of each place. Also, according to the changing dynamics of the epidemic outside the country, people returning from abroad should
During home isolation, the role of community health centers and hospitals should be utilized. Isolated persons can seek advice and assistance from community doctors at home by phone or WeChat. Community doctors can also understand and observe the health status of isolated persons through telephone and WeChat video, and provide follow-up guidance. If the person is not available for isolation and observation at home or in the hospital, he or she can go to the local centralized isolation site for isolation.
