Special Note: During the current epidemic of novel coronavirus infection, children with a temperature above 37.3°C and any of the following conditions should be seen directly at the fever clinic: (i) a history of travel or residence in Wuhan 14 days prior to the onset of illness; (ii) exposure to a patient with fever and respiratory symptoms from Wuhan within 14 days prior to the onset of illness; (iii) a family with a cluster of patients with fever.
Some symptoms of novel coronavirus pneumonia are similar to those of the common cold, such as fever, weakness of the limbs, dry cough, etc. There are also cases with insignificant symptoms, or symptoms of other systems such as digestive, cardiovascular, neurological, ophthalmic symptoms, etc. Symptoms may be more atypical in newborns and infants, and once detected, the disease progresses rapidly or the observation period has been missed.
The major differences between novel coronavirus infection and common cold are: diarrhea, breathing gradually becomes difficult, such as: breathing too fast or too slow, breathing too deep or too shallow, and in infants or newborns, open-mouth breathing, wheezing, moaning, nasal flapping (nostrils opening and closing), nodding breathing, and even lip and face color changes (cyanosis) and respiratory trigeminal signs. If any of these symptoms occur, please seek immediate medical attention!
Parents with home isolation of suspected cases should try to ensure that the rooms are separated to avoid contact between suspected parents and children, and suspected parents should wear appropriate masks at home (no protective masks with breathing valves), and children should also wear appropriate masks correctly. If possible, you should choose N95 medical mask for children first, and the rest in the order of children's medical protective masks → children's medical masks → disposable masks → children's cotton masks. After contact with suspected patients, children should take the initiative to be isolated and observed at home for 14 days, no symptoms can be released from isolation but try not to go out. As soon as there are symptoms, go to the fever clinic of the pediatric department of the nearest hospital and inform the doctor of the risk factors.
For children who need to be vaccinated during the outbreak, delayed vaccination should be determined on a case-by-case basis. In principle, the delay in vaccination will not affect the effectiveness of immunization and can be replaced in time. In addition, some vaccines that need to be given several times in a row can be temporarily interrupted for some reasons, and the temporary "interruption" will not cause the previous vaccines to be "wasted. However, there are some vaccines that cannot be delayed even during an epidemic of new coronavirus infections, such as rabies vaccine, for which the first dose must be given on the day of the bite. It is recommended to pay close attention to the dynamics of childhood vaccination clinics. If you must go out, you should be protected to avoid infection.
For children with chronic illnesses that require regular review, it is important to follow the primary care physician's assessment of the child's condition and not to make any decisions. If the physician can communicate with parents through online forms to monitor the child's disease, determine the efficacy and maintain the continuity and effectiveness of treatment, the number of hospital visits can be reduced. However, if the disease does not allow, changes or even deteriorates, the child should be seen promptly. During the visit, both the child and the parents should be well protected, especially they should wear a mask throughout the visit, not touching everywhere and not touching the mouth, nose and eyes with unclean hands. If possible, have the necessary tests performed nearby and send the results to the treating doctor online to guide the next treatment.
Finally, parents are reminded to do their daily protection against some common childhood diseases, such as rhinitis, pharyngitis, tonsillitis, common cold, constipation, abdominal pain and diarrhea, to reduce the chance of hospital visits and reduce the risk of cross-infection with the virus.
During the special period of epidemic outbreak, if there are no special instructions or requirements from the government or the maternity hospital, pregnant mothers can insist on normal maternity checkups and be prepared to wear medical grade or higher masks and carry hand sanitizer or disinfectant wipes before going to the maternity hospital; do not touch the mouth, nose, eyes, etc. without washing hands; cooperate with the hospital for temperature screening, including epidemiological screening, etc.; follow the hospital's advice, such as splitting up the time slots to avoid too many pregnant women waiting together; wash hands and faces when leaving the hospital. When you go to the hospital, you should always cooperate with the hospital for temperature screening, including epidemiological screening, etc.; follow the hospital's advice, such as splitting the consultation time to avoid too many pregnant women being grouped together and reduce the waiting time or consultation time in the hospital; when you leave the hospital, you should wash your hands and face, and washing your face should include washing your ears and nose, and you should also change your external clothing. Without special problems, pregnant women whose gestational weeks are in early and middle pregnancy can extend the interval between visits to the hospital appropriately on the advice of the doctor. If a pregnant woman has a fever, it is recommended to visit the fever clinic directly first, and then, depending on the results of the examination, a series of subsequent examinations or recommendations will be given.
The early manifestations of novel coronavirus pneumonia lack characteristics and are not easily distinguishable from upper respiratory tract infections caused by the common cold or other pathogens, making it difficult to self-diagnose. If pregnant mothers have symptoms such as fever and cough, they need to pay attention to monitor their body temperature and keep records of the symptoms such as vomiting, abdominal pain, diarrhea, muscle aches, etc. Do not self-medicate, and consult your obstetrician before using medication; if the symptoms are mild and no other symptoms appear, consider dealing with them at home to avoid cross-infection at the hospital; if obstetric emergencies occur If there are symptoms of obstetric emergencies, such as vaginal bleeding, abdominal pain, abnormal fetal movement, signs of labor, etc., it is recommended that you should take good precautions and go to the hospital in time.
If a pregnant mother develops symptoms such as low fever, sore throat and cough and has risk factors such as having been to an area where the disease is endemic and possibly having been in contact with a patient with New Coronary Pneumonia, home isolation should be started immediately. When the disease worsens, symptoms such as high fever and dyspnea should be promptly seen at a fever clinic. There are not enough data to confirm the risk of maternal-fetal transmission of novel coronavirus infection. If a pregnant woman is diagnosed with novel coronavirus pneumonia, a multidisciplinary consultation should be conducted to determine whether to continue the pregnancy, taking into account the patient's specific circumstances, including gestational age and severity of illness.
If a pregnant mother has symptoms of pneumonia, she should go to the emergency room. The emergency medical staff will first prediagnose and triage pregnant mothers with fever and suspected pneumonia, take their temperature, and direct them to the designated fever clinic; at the same time, the fever clinic staff will organize a consultation with obstetricians and perform obstetric examinations, fetal heart monitoring, and ultrasound to assess the intrauterine safety of the fetus if necessary. Currently, suspected and confirmed cases of pulmonary infection in pregnancy are being seen in the obstetrics departments of medical institutions in Hubei Province at all gestational ages. Effective measures are being taken in all regions to designate medical institutions with strong comprehensive obstetric and neonatal care capabilities to provide maternal care and safe delivery services to ensure the safety of mothers and infants. There is no evidence that the virus can be transmitted to newborns. It is recommended that the baby be isolated for 10 days after birth and not breastfed while under close supervision.
