(3) Confronting the situation of accepting isolation
It is natural that isolated people will have a hard time, but this is to better protect themselves and others. We also have to deal with the intentional avoidance and distancing of others, or those who complain about our anger because they are too afraid of the virus, which may give us an inappropriate sense of shame that we are "ominous" and "annoying," but we need to understand that it is not us who are being avoided and distanced, but the infectious virus. But we need to understand that it is not us who are avoided and distanced, but the contagious virus. The struggle between human beings and diseases and disasters is eternal, and in every such struggle, there are always people with a deep sense of responsibility who sacrifice their interests, their freedom, and even their lives for the benefit of society and the public at large. We are still under observation, and even if we are unfortunate enough to be infected, there is a great possibility that we will be cured.
(4) Seek resources to deal with stress
More communication with their relatives, friends, colleagues, organizations, etc., although not face to face, but completely through modern means of communication such as telephone, SMS, e-mail, online chat, etc., each other to confide in each other's feelings, mutual greetings, comfort, support and encouragement are beneficial to us, think that a person in the face of pain we will be very lonely, feel that many people in the face of difficulties together with us we will feel more powerful.
(5) Actively cooperate with scientific and effective treatment
Although there are no specific medications for the new coronavirus, it is important to follow medical treatments, ensure adequate nutrition, maintain the function of all body systems, prevent complications, and it is also very important to have a positive and optimistic attitude towards the disease, fully believing and appreciating our body's ability to coordinate and recover itself.
(6) Preserve as much of normal life as possible
The impact of isolation on life is often multifaceted, work, study, recreation and leisure, diet, etc., but we should live as normally as possible with the necessary scientific treatment and protective measures, on the one hand, making the loss reduced to a minimum, on the other hand, will also make the emotional recovery as soon as possible, normal life to have a normal mood.
(7) Commitment to constructive things
It is often said that "turning grief into strength", and there is no more mature way for people in a state of pain than to sublimate this painful emotion into a constructive motivation, a famous psychologist wrote a monumental work of psychology in a Nazi concentration camp, and the poet Goethe completed "The Trouble with Young Werther" in the days of lost love. "The Trouble with Young Werther". The virus makes us suffer from illness and isolation, we have to participate more actively in the fight against the virus, trying to cooperate with isolation and treatment, and keep working or creating when possible.
(8) Finding the positive meaning in adversity
