Medical personnel should follow the standard precautionary principles and do a good job in hospital infection control such as personal protection, hand hygiene, ward management, environmental ventilation, cleaning and disinfection of object surfaces and medical waste management according to the risks that may be transmitted by medical operations to avoid hospital infections to the greatest extent possible. The following points need to be noted during daily treatment activities.
(1) engaged in medical treatment activities, medical and nursing staff should wear medical masks, and regular replacement.
(2) Medical staff at the pre-care triage office must wear overalls, work caps, and medical surgical masks.
(3) Give patients and accompanying family members to wear medical surgical masks during the face consultation and keep a certain distance. Do the effective ventilation of the consultation room.
(4) Medical and nursing staff in fever clinics, respiratory clinics, infectious disease departments and isolation wards should wear work clothes, disposable isolation clothing, work caps and medical surgical masks during daily consultation activities and room visits.
(5) Protective masks and goggles or protective face screens should be worn when collecting respiratory samples.
(6) Contact with blood, body fluids, secretions or excretions should be added when wearing latex gloves.
(7) Medical protective masks, goggles or protective face screens, latex gloves, medical gowns (disposable impermeable barrier gowns can be added) and breathing hoods should be worn when performing tracheal intubation, bronchoscopy, airway care and suctioning, etc., where aerosol or splash operations may occur.
(8) It is forbidden to leave the contaminated area wearing personal protective equipment in order to avoid cross-infection in each partition. Strictly follow the process of putting on and taking off equipment (see "Process of putting on and taking off protective equipment for medical personnel").
The process of putting on and taking off protective equipment for medical personnel
A. Medical staff to enter the isolation ward to wear protective equipment procedures
