(6) Restrooms should be equipped with sufficient hand sanitizer, hand towels or hand dryers to ensure that water supply facilities such as faucets work properly. Advocate the elderly to develop the good habit of washing their hands frequently. Hand cream can be placed by the sink to make it easy to apply after washing hands.
7) Ensure that the environment is clean and sanitary. Frequently dry the bedding and clothes of the elderly. Wipe the tables, chairs and surfaces of objects in the activity room with clean water once a day and disinfect them once or twice a week; wipe the floor, window sills, bedside tables and bed fences in the bedroom with clean water once a day; wipe the door handles, faucets, commode handrails and commode tank buttons with clean water once a day and disinfect them once or twice a week.
(8) Prepare isolation rooms for the isolation and treatment of future elderly with suspected symptoms. The elderly with symptoms should be isolated in time to avoid transmission to other elderly. The isolation room should be set in a single room that is not densely populated, well ventilated, with a separate bathroom, and downwind of the nursing home. Use independent air conditioning as much as possible, if you need to use central air conditioning, the new air system should be turned off. The domestic garbage in the isolation area should be collected uniformly and treated as medical waste.
If an elderly person in a nursing home has suspicious symptoms such as fever, cough, mild nausea, weakness, slightly poor mental health, nausea and vomiting, diarrhea, headache, panic, chest tightness, conjunctivitis, mild muscle pain in the limbs or lower back, the nursing home should also take the following measures:
(1) The elderly single room to isolate themselves and avoid close contact with other people.
(2) Assessment of their health status by medical personnel, depending on the condition of the disease sent to medical institutions for medical treatment, should wear a medical surgical mask on the way to medical treatment, and try to avoid taking public transportation.
(3) promptly contact the local community health agency or the CDC for guidance and assistance with related investigations and dispositions. Those who have had close contact with a person with suspected symptoms without effective protection should be registered immediately and placed under medical observation.
4) Suspension of visitation activities.
5) Reduce unnecessary gatherings, dinners and other group activities, and do not arrange centralized meals.
(6) If an elderly person with suspicious symptoms is diagnosed with novel coronavirus pneumonia, his or her close contacts should be placed under medical observation for 14 days. After the patient leaves (e.g., hospitalization, death, etc.), final disinfection of the residence should be performed promptly. The specific disinfection method should be operated or directed by professionals from the local CDC agency or a qualified third party. The residence is not recommended for use without disinfection.
(3) farmers' markets, birds, flowers, insects and fish markets, live poultry (livestock) trading markets
