Maintain air circulation in public places. Ensure that the air conditioning system or exhaust fan is functioning properly, clean the air conditioning filter regularly, and strengthen the ventilation of open windows.
Washrooms should be equipped with sufficient hand sanitizer to ensure that water supply facilities such as faucets are working properly. Disinfect sanitary facilities in a timely manner and use air disinfection spray to disinfect the air when necessary.
Keep the environment clean and clear the garbage in time.
In areas where the disease is endemic, the public should minimize visits to public places, especially avoiding places with heavy traffic and poor air circulation.
(2) Workplace
Commuting to and from work
Wear disposable medical masks correctly. Try not to take public transportation, it is recommended to walk, ride or take private cars or shuttles to and from work. If you have to take public transportation, public trams are preferred. Be sure to wear a mask throughout the journey. Avoid touching objects in the car with your hands during the journey. When you leave work, wash your hands and wear a disposable medical mask, and when you return home, wash your hands after removing the mask. Use disinfectant wipes or 75% alcohol to wipe your cell phone and keys. Keep your home ventilated and hygienically clean, and avoid multi-person gatherings.
Disinfection of public areas and air conditioners
Public areas such as foyers, hallways, conference rooms, elevators, stairs, and restrooms must be disinfected daily, using spray disinfection whenever possible. The cleaning utensils used in each area should be separated to avoid mixing. In addition to daily routine cleaning and disinfection, bathrooms should be disinfected regularly and air disinfection should be carried out by spray.
Central air conditioning system fan coils in normal use, regular disinfection of the air supply and return air outlets. If there is an epidemic, do not stop the fan operation, should be closed after the evacuation of personnel, the exhaust branch, run for a period of time to shut down the fresh air exhaust system, while disinfection. All-air system with return air should be completely closed the return air to ensure that the system runs with all fresh air.
During the epidemic prevention period, do hand hygiene before and after taking off masks, put discarded masks in the garbage cans, and disinfect the garbage cans twice a day with 75% alcohol or chlorine-containing disinfectant.
