(2) The elderly and patients with chronic heart and lung diseases will cause discomfort after wearing, and may even aggravate the original condition, should seek professional guidance from a doctor.
(3) Children are in the growth and development stage, their faces are small, so they should choose children's protective masks.
How often should I change my mask?
If the mask is wet or soiled by secretions and the protective performance is reduced, it is recommended to replace it immediately. The public wears masks and does not have to use them once for a change, but can decide whether to use them for a longer period of time depending on the degree of cleanliness.
How to dispose of the mask after use?
After wearing, the mask should be removed in the correct way (Figure 7). Reuse of disposable masks is not recommended. If repeatedly used several times, in addition to the possible decrease in the protective effect of the mask, the dust, bacteria and viruses accumulated on the outer layer of the mask may contaminate the inner surface and cause infection. If the mask is used within the time limit and must be reused due to some special circumstances, do not directly take off the mask and stuff it in your pocket or bag, it should be folded (the side in contact with the nose and mouth should be folded inward) in a clean self-sealing bag to avoid contamination of the inside of the mask by the outside. After taking off the mask, you should wash your hands in time.
The masks worn by healthy people have no risk of transmission of the new coronavirus and are generally replaced when they are deformed, wet or soiled resulting in reduced protective performance. The masks used by the healthy population can be disposed of according to the requirements of household waste classification.
The masks worn by suspected cases or confirmed patients should not be discarded at will, and should be treated as medical waste and handled in strict accordance with the relevant procedures for medical waste, and should not enter the circulation market.
In addition, masks should never be washed with water or alcohol and then reused. Cutting and shredding is not recommended for handling, as droplets may contaminate the scissors. Do not use boiling water to scald the mask either, the operation process will instead increase the risk of viral infection.
How to avoid skin damage when wearing a mask for a long time?
First of all, we should choose the right size mask, avoid using shoddy products, children should choose the right size, and apply some emollient lotion behind the ears of the face when wearing; secondly, we can change the position of the mask or take it off after wearing for a period of time to let the skin reduce pressure, and find that redness and damage should let the skin fully rest and be treated accordingly; finally, we can apply emollient lotion and dressing to reduce skin damage in the pressure area.
