3．Information
Disseminate information to the public about medical consultation; those with respiratory symptoms without fever go to community health protection centers (township health centers), those with fever go to fever clinics, and those with novel coronavirus infections go to sentinel hospitals. Daily information on local and local community outbreaks is released to suggest travel and travel risks.
4. Management of returnees from infected areas
Communities should issue notices requiring that people returning from infected areas should immediately register at their village branch or community and go to the local health center or village doctor or community health service center for medical checkups twice a day, while taking the initiative to self-isolate for 14 days. All those returning from infected areas with febrile respiratory symptoms should promptly seek medical clearance nearby and be isolated at home or at a government-designated location or hospital as required; their close contacts should also immediately self-isolate at home or at a locally designated location. During the isolation period, please keep in touch with local medical personnel or the CDC for follow-up observation.
5. Environmental health management
The community carries out comprehensive vector-biological prevention and control, mainly environmental remediation, supplemented by drug disinfection, and carries out sanitary cleaning of key places such as residential neighborhoods, garbage transfer stations and construction sites, disposes of garbage and dirt, and eliminates the breeding environment for rodents, cockroaches, mosquitoes, flies and other vector-biological organisms. Timely organization of comprehensive vector control and extermination to effectively reduce the density of vector organisms.
6. Material preparation
Communities and families stock up on essential prevention and control items and supplies, such as thermometers, masks, disinfection supplies, etc.
(ii) The emergence of cases or outbreaks in the community
The strategy of "internal prevention of spread and external prevention of export" includes the six measures mentioned above, as well as close contact management and disinfection.
7. Close contact management
