Recently, studies have demonstrated the possibility of aerosol transmission of novel coronavirus, and health care should take the necessary precautions. For non-medical personnel, aerosol transmission is an extremely rare mode of transmission. However, viral nucleic acid can be detected in the feces of patients with confirmed novel coronavirus, so care should be taken to cover the toilet lid when flushing the toilet, disinfect the toilet regularly, and pay attention to the disinfection treatment of sewage in the sewer system in all communities and villages with confirmed or suspected cases.
Recent reports indicate that, following several cases of novel coronavirus infection in children, cases of novel coronavirus infection in newborns have been identified. on February 5, 2020, two cases of novel coronavirus pneumonia in newborns were diagnosed in Tongji Hospital, affiliated with Tongji Medical College of Huazhong University of Science and Technology, with the youngest diagnosed being born just 30 hours ago. Although there is no definite evidence of vertical mother-to-child transmission of novel coronavirus, the possibility of vertical transmission still exists and needs to be given high priority.
For the traceability of the novel coronavirus, on February 29, the National Health Commission released the "China-WHO Joint Expedition Report on Novel Coronavirus Pneumonia (COVID-19)" in which it was mentioned that bats appear to be the host of the virus, but intermediate hosts have not been identified. The identification of an intermediate host requires a rigorous and recognized scientific process, including: isolation of a replicating virus in the intermediate host; isolation of a virus that can show pathogenicity and pathological characteristics in an animal model; confirmation of the position of the virus in the chain of infection transmission (is it transmitted to humans by animals carrying the virus, or to animals by humans who have already transmitted the virus?) etc. In conclusion, the current study has not been able to identify the intermediate host of this novel coronavirus and further scientific studies are needed.
Novel coronavirus pneumonia is characterized by fever, malaise, and dry cough. A small number of patients have symptoms such as nasal congestion, runny nose and diarrhea. More than half of the patients may present with dyspnea. Patients with the mild form only present with low-grade fever and mild malaise, with no pneumonia manifestations. Patients with the common type have imaging signs of pneumonia. Patients with mild and common forms need to be monitored closely, and some patients may progress to severe disease. Severely ill patients tend to develop respiratory distress and/or hypoxemia 1 week after onset, and in severe cases, rapid onset of acute respiratory distress syndrome, septic shock, uncorrectable metabolic acidosis and coagulopathy, and multi-organ failure. A small number of patients with severe and critical illnesses may have moderate to low fever or even no significant fever during the course of the disease. Some patients only present with low-grade fever and mild malaise, without pneumonia manifestations, and mostly recover after 1 week.
Current epidemiological surveys show that the incubation period of novel coronaviruses is 1 to 14 days, mostly 3 to 7 days. The incubation period is infectious, which means that during the time when individuals have been infected with the virus but have not developed the disease, there is also the possibility of infecting others, which increases the difficulty of controlling the outbreak.
In the early stages of novel coronavirus pneumonia, patients may present with symptoms such as headache, nasal congestion, sneezing and coughing, similar to the flu and the common cold. However, there is actually a clear difference between them.
(1) Suspected symptoms in yourself or your family
If you or your family members develop: ① symptoms of acute respiratory infection such as fever (axillary body temperature ≥37.3℃), cough, shortness of breath, etc., ② history of travel or residence in Wuhan or other areas with persistent transmission of local cases, or have been in contact with patients with fever with respiratory symptoms from Wuhan or other areas with persistent transmission of local cases within 14 days before the onset of fever, ③ emergence of aggregated illness (within 2 weeks in a small area such as home, office, school class, etc., with 2 or more cases of fever and/or respiratory symptoms), you should go to the fever clinic of the designated hospital for consultation.
Wear a mask throughout the journey to the doctor, avoid public transportation, take a private car or call an ambulance, and stay as far away as possible from other people (at least 1 meter) on the road and in the hospital. When seeking medical attention, you should give a detailed account of your illness and the process of seeking medical attention. In particular, you should inform the doctor of your recent history of travel and residence in Wuhan, your history of contact with patients or suspected patients with pneumonia, and your history of animal contact. Before and after seeking medical attention, you may refer to "(1) Home environment" and "(2) Private car" in Chapter 3, "3. Home precautions" to clean and disinfect the surrounding environment.
Upon arrival at the fever clinic, the nurse will measure the temperature for a temperature above 37.3°C and ask for an epidemiological history. For patients with fever and an epidemiological history, the doctor will arrange for routine blood tests, liver and kidney functions, cardiac enzymes, and X-ray chest radiographs. Once the test results are available, the fever clinic doctor will make a judgment based on the results, and if novel coronavirus pneumonia is suspected, the hospital will request a consultation with a specialist. During this period, febrile patients will be placed in isolation for observation. If novel coronavirus pneumonia is suspected, the hospital will refer the patient to a designated hospital for isolation treatment and pathogenic testing.
(2) Designated hospitals and fever clinics
