You can refer to the following table for the level of personal protection.
(1) Home environment
Ordinary families should have good ventilation indoors during disease epidemics, natural ventilation or mechanical ventilation. When opening windows in winter, attention needs to be paid to colds caused by large temperature differences between indoors and outdoors. After coming home, you should wash your hands with hand sanitizer and running water, or disinfect your hands with effective disinfectants such as iodophor, chlorine disinfectant and hydrogen peroxide disinfectant.
The floor, desktop, furniture and other object surfaces are cleaned well every day and disinfected regularly. A concentration of 250mg/L chlorine-containing disinfectant can be prepared for wiping; metal, electrical appliances and other non-corrosive resistant object surfaces are wiped with 75% alcohol; the disinfection action time should be no less than 15 minutes, and then wiped with water to remove residual disinfectant. Water cups, tableware and other utensils can be disinfected by boiling or circulating steam for 15 minutes after washing; or refer to the instructions to use the disinfection cupboard for disinfection. Cleaning tools can be disinfected by soaking in chlorine disinfectant with an effective chlorine content of 500mg/L for 30 minutes and then washing and drying. After a guest (health status unknown) visits, disinfect the relevant object surfaces in the room in a timely manner. Personal protection should be provided during disinfection by wearing latex or nitrile gloves, waterproof aprons (or sleeved raincoats instead), masks, etc., and washing hands promptly after disinfection. Confirm the expiration date and dilution ratio of the disinfectant, and mix it well.
When a family member shows suspicious symptoms, other family members should be isolated and sent to the doctor in a timely manner (see "2. Seeking medical attention" in "Chapter 2: Symptoms, medical attention, isolation, and treatment"). After consultation, disinfect the isolated room and contact items (e.g., living room floor, bathroom, furniture countertops, door handles, eating utensils, etc.).
When a patient with novel coronavirus infection is present in the home, final disinfection should be performed after the patient leaves (e.g., hospitalization, death, release from isolation, etc.). The final disinfection of the patient's home includes the floor and walls of the living room, tables, chairs and other furniture countertops, door handles, the patient's dining utensils, clothes, bedding and other household items, toys, bathrooms including toilets, etc. Terminal disinfection is usually done by professionals and carried out by the local Center for Disease Control and Prevention. Other family members are close contacts and should be under medical observation for 14 days.
(2) Private cars
Under daily circumstances, private cars do not need to disinfection treatment, in open places, do a good job of ventilation. When opening the windows in winter, you need to pay attention to the temperature difference between inside and outside the car, do not cause a cold. In the underground parking lot and other confined environment, it is recommended to close the windows, open the air conditioning internal circulation way to ventilation.
After entering a public place and returning to the vehicle, drivers and passengers are advised to use hand sanitizer for hand hygiene first. After having friends and relatives (health status unknown) aboard, promptly open the windows for ventilation and disinfect the relevant object surfaces in the vehicle by choosing a legal and effective disinfectant or disinfectant wipes for disinfection. Object surfaces can be disinfected with chlorine disinfectant, chlorine dioxide, etc. or disinfectant wipes. Hands and skin are recommended to choose effective disinfectants such as iodophor, chlorinated disinfectants and hydrogen peroxide disinfectants for hand and skin disinfection or quick-drying hand disinfectants for wiping and disinfection.
Those with suspicious symptoms (suspicious symptoms include fever, cough, sore throat, chest tightness, dyspnea, fatigue, nausea and vomiting, diarrhea, conjunctivitis, muscle aches, etc.) should wear a medical surgical mask when riding in a private car, try to keep a distance from people in the same car, do not turn on the air conditioning internal circulation, and open the windows moderately for ventilation. After a person with suspicious symptoms gets out of the car, quickly open the windows for ventilation and disinfect the surfaces of the objects they touch (door handles, steering wheels, windows, windshields, seats, etc.).
The final disinfection of the private car should be done promptly after the patient gets out of the car after riding in the private car with novel coronavirus infection. The scope of final disinfection for private cars includes object surfaces (seats, steering wheels, windows, door handles, etc.), air conditioning systems, and vomit. Chlorine dioxide is the recommended disinfectant of choice, and the car should be started and the air conditioning internal circulation turned on during disinfection treatment. The specific disinfection method is operated by professionals from local CDC agencies or qualified third parties, and the vehicle is not recommended to be used without disinfection treatment before. Other co-passengers are close contacts and should be under medical observation for 14 days.
