(1) Reasonable attention to the epidemic, "regularly" rather than "at all times".
Information management is a change in the traditional way of handling information about the epidemic and a way to regulate the management of the epidemic and its psychological impact. The public learns information about the outbreak and related protective knowledge from formal channels, takes active and effective protective measures, and protects itself well. Frequent reports are intended to draw attention to the disease, but there is no need to panic about it, and the actual severity of the disease will not be increased by frequent reports. You can set an "information alarm clock" and spend a few minutes every half day to pay attention to the epidemic information, and the rest of the day for daily activities such as sports, work, housework or recreation, so that you can get a normal rest and enjoy your mood while keeping abreast of the epidemic. With the necessary protection, a rich and regular life will give us a stronger "psychological immunity" and the strength and confidence to face the changing and unknown risks.
(2) Maintain social ties and give support to each other.
Close family ties and social support are an important source of "security" for people who feel isolated and helpless in the face of the risks of an epidemic. Close family ties and social support are important sources of "safety". It is advisable to communicate with friends to encourage each other, communicate with each other and strengthen psychological support. It is also important to avoid unprotected face-to-face meetings and to encourage communication by phone, Internet, and cell phone text messaging to avoid the spread of novel pneumonia. For vulnerable people, such as children and the elderly, try to give more encouragement and life care. As prevention and control are prolonged, support for each other can enable us to cope with adversity more permanently.
(3) Monitor psychological power and help yourself before helping others.
We sometimes feel frustrated or inadequate in the face of difficult situations in areas with severe epidemics. It is recommended that this group of people take a "psychological battery monitor" and spend one minute every half day to assess their current emotional state (on a scale of 0 to 100, with 100 being positive and energetic, and 0 being physically and emotionally exhausted and severely depleted). If you are already depleted, helpless and frustrated, adjust the pace and intensity of your assistance, or take a break to "recharge". If you feel emotional and physical abnormalities and discomfort, seek help or medical attention to avoid depletion of your "psychological power" due to continuous commitment.
In daily life, it is important to look at life positively and act positively to establish good living and hygiene habits. Pay attention to a good diet, ensure sleep, accept your fear, tension, anxiety and other emotions, and use reasonable methods of catharsis. Do not resort to denial, avoidance and withdrawal, over-reliance on others, blame and complaint, diversion and other poor coping methods, do not try to relieve tension through the use of alcohol and tobacco, and do not engage in tantrums, impulsive injuries, self-inflicted suicides and other behaviors. When the spread of the epidemic is effectively contained, you should not be blindly optimistic, relax your vigilance, or neglect protection.
With the increasing severity of the new coronavirus pneumonia, children must have a lot of curiosity and wonder why the planned winter vacation trip is cancelled? Why do I have to wear a mask when I go out? Why is the start of school delayed? With all this going on, it is important to find the right way to communicate with children in a way that does not create great fear and at the same time is understood and valued.
First of all, when facing children, parents should adjust their self-state, maintain emotional stability and regular and orderly life. Children often observe and experience the world through their parents' emotions and behaviors, so parents should promptly detect and regulate their own anxiety and fear, and try to present a stable, positive and powerful side in front of their children to help them establish a sense of security. Parents can consciously arrange some study, indoor exercise, housework, parent-child games, etc. to help their children adjust their life routine, allocate time in a reasonable and scientific way, and increase the emotional communication between relatives to bring confidence and security to their children.
Parents should accept their children's emotional reactions to current situations and be more patient in explaining the dangers of the outside world to them, conveying information in a way they can understand and in words they can understand. Parents can encourage their children to express their thoughts and emotional feelings in the way they are used to, help them identify and name their emotions such as "fear, dread, and happiness", help them express their feelings through drawing and doodling, allow them to cry and express their fears, and help them recognize that fear and dread are normal Emotional reactions. You can also use storytelling and games to help your child understand the concepts of viruses and illnesses, learn to face them with the right attitude, increase awareness and develop good habits, and become more understanding of mom and dad's decisions.
Parents may need to spend more time with their children, giving love and care during the special times when the epidemic is raging.
Pay attention to ensure nutritional balance, adhere to exercise, to achieve scientific nutrition.
