Patients with stable chronic diseases should strengthen self-management, treat and manage existing chronic diseases as required. Prepare all medications, take them on time, closely observe the change of symptoms and progress of the chronic disease they have, and strengthen the contact with the doctor. Patients with hypertension should have their blood pressure measured daily. If one of the critical conditions occurs, such as systolic blood pressure ≥ 180 mmHg and/or diastolic blood pressure ≥ 110 mmHg; change in consciousness, severe headache or dizziness, nausea and vomiting, blurred vision, eye pain, palpitations, chest tightness, etc., please contact your doctor or go to the hospital promptly. Patients with diabetes should self-monitor their blood glucose and blood pressure. If you have blood glucose ≥ 16.7 mmol/L or blood sugar ≤ 3.9 mmol/L; systolic blood pressure ≥ 180 mmHg and/or diastolic blood pressure ≥ 110 mmHg; change in consciousness or behavior, or other sudden abnormal conditions, such as a sudden and abrupt decrease in vision, please contact your doctor or go to the hospital promptly.
When going to the hospital, you should learn as much as possible about the proposed medical institution in advance through the Internet or by phone, make appointments and preparations, and familiarize yourself with the hospital department layout and step-by-step procedures to reduce the consultation time. Patients and accompanying family members should wear a medical surgical mask or N95 mask throughout the journey to the hospital and in the hospital. If possible, avoid taking public transportation to the hospital. Maintain hand hygiene at all times and have a portable alcohol-based hand sanitizer available. Keep as much distance as possible between people (at least 1 meter) while on the road and in the hospital. If transportation is contaminated while on the road, it is recommended that all surfaces contaminated with respiratory secretions or body fluids be disinfected with a chlorinated disinfectant or peracetic acid disinfectant. Avoid touching your mouth, nose and eyes with your hands as much as possible. When sneezing or coughing, cover your mouth and nose with a tissue or elbow. Try to use hand disinfectant after touching hospital items such as hospital door handles, curtains, doctors' white coats, etc. If you cannot disinfect your hands in time, do not touch your mouth, nose or eyes with your hands. During hospital visits, reduce the length of stay in the hospital as much as possible.
After returning home from the hospital, change your clothes immediately, wash your hands carefully with running water, wash your clothes as soon as possible, and treat them with 84 disinfectant first if possible. If suspicious symptoms (including fever, cough, sore throat, chest tightness, dyspnea, malaise, nausea and vomiting, diarrhea, conjunctivitis, muscle aches, etc.) appear, seek prompt medical attention according to your condition and inform the receiving physician of your activity history for the past 2 weeks.
Home isolation is the main non-pharmaceutical intervention and low-cost measure to contain an epidemic, and personal protective measures such as self-isolation are one of the effective measures to control the epidemic of infectious diseases. As the epidemic progresses, specific isolation measures do not vary from place to place, and home isolation should be carried out according to the specific requirements of each place. Also, according to the changing dynamics of the epidemic outside the country, people returning from abroad should
During home isolation, the role of community health centers and hospitals should be utilized. Isolated persons can seek advice and assistance from community doctors at home by phone or WeChat. Community doctors can also understand and observe the health status of isolated persons through telephone and WeChat video, and provide follow-up guidance. If the person is not available for isolation and observation at home or in the hospital, he or she can go to the local centralized isolation site for isolation.
(1) Individuals with suspected symptoms
Individuals with suspected symptoms should first isolate themselves and seek medical attention at the nearest fever clinic as soon as possible, for details, please refer to "(1) Suspected symptoms in yourself or your family" in "2.
(2) Close contacts and suspected exposed persons
Close contacts and suspected exposures are subject to isolation for medical observation.
Close contacts are anyone who has had close contact with the source of infection (patients with novel coronavirus pneumonia and carriers of the pathogen) and may have been infected. This includes the following.
(1) Living, studying and working together with the patient as colleagues in the same office or classmates in the same classroom or dormitory.
(2) Health care workers who treat and care for the patient, relatives and friends who visit the patient, or other persons who have had close contact with the patient.
