(1) adequate energy, cereals and potatoes to ensure that the daily intake of 250 to 400g, including rice, flour, mixed grains such as corn, buckwheat and potatoes. Can be moderate consumption of milk (preferably yogurt products), soy foods, adhere to a daily egg, milk and milk products 300g, so that more than the usual 20g of high-quality protein, to ensure that the "resistance". Do not eat wild animals.
(2) Eat fresh vegetables and fruits every day, not less than 5 kinds of vegetables per day, preferably more than 500g. Half of them are dark-colored fruits and vegetables. Fruits to ensure 200 to 350g. fresh fruits and vegetables, as well as nuts and other plant crops rich in B vitamins, vitamin C, vitamin E, etc., has a strong antioxidant, immune regulating effect.
(3) Drink plenty of water in moderation, 1500 to 2000ml per day, many times in small amounts and effectively; you can drink warm boiled water or light tea. Before and after meals, vegetable soup, fish soup, chicken soup, etc. is also a good choice.
(4) A wide variety of food types, sources and colors, no less than 20 kinds of food per day; do not be partial to food, meat and vegetarian mix.
(5) rich sources of edible fats and oils, and moderate increase in the intake of essential fatty acids. Cooking with vegetable oils rich in n-9 monounsaturated fatty acids and hard fruits and oily foods, such as peanuts, walnuts, pistachios, etc.. The total fat energy supply ratio reaches 25% to 30% of the total dietary energy.
(6) Do not diet and do not lose weight during the novel coronavirus pneumonia epidemic.
(7) Regular rest and adequate sleep, ensuring at least 7 hours of sleep per day.
(8) Carry out individual types of physical exercise for a cumulative time of at least one hour per day, and do not participate in group sports activities.
(9) During the epidemic of novel coronavirus pneumonia, it is recommended to supplement health food products such as compound vitamins, minerals and deep-sea fish oil in appropriate amounts.
(10) For patients with inadequate diet, the elderly and chronic wasting underlying diseases, it is recommended to increase commercial enteral nutrition (special medical food) with no less than 500 additional calories per day.
Adhere to a reasonable diet and improve your resistance through balanced nutrition. Refer to the "Dietary Guidelines for Chinese Residents (2016)" issued by the Chinese Nutrition Society for nutritional "prescriptions". Under the current special circumstances, the following entries are also applicable to the general population.
(1) energy to be sufficient, cereal and potatoes to ensure that the daily intake of 250 ~ 400g, including rice, flour, miscellaneous grains such as corn, buckwheat and potatoes, etc.. Can moderate consumption of milk, class (preferably yogurt products), soy, in food, adhere to a daily egg, milk and milk products 300g, so that more than the usual 20g of high-quality protein, to ensure that "resistance. Do not eat wild animals.
