Suitable for shopping malls, restaurants, cinemas, KTV, Internet cafes, public baths, gymnasiums, exhibition halls, railway stations, subway stations, airports, bus stations and other public places.
Staff in public places should monitor their own health and not go to work with illness if they have suspicious symptoms of novel coronavirus infection (such as fever, cough, sore throat, chest tightness, difficulty in breathing, mild nausea, weakness, slightly poor spirit, nausea and vomiting, diarrhea, headache, heartburn, conjunctivitis, mild muscle pain in the limbs or lower back, etc.). If suspicious symptoms of novel coronavirus infection are detected, staff should ask them to leave or contact the hospital promptly.
Public use items and public contact items or parts should be cleaned and disinfected regularly.
Maintain air circulation in public places. Ensure that the air conditioning system or exhaust fan is functioning properly, clean the air conditioning filter regularly, and strengthen the ventilation of open windows.
Washrooms should be equipped with sufficient hand sanitizer to ensure that water supply facilities such as faucets are working properly. Disinfect sanitary facilities in a timely manner and use air disinfection spray to disinfect the air when necessary.
Keep the environment clean and clear the garbage in time.
In areas where the disease is endemic, the public should minimize visits to public places, especially avoiding places with heavy traffic and poor air circulation.
(2) Workplace
Commuting to and from work
Wear disposable medical masks correctly. Try not to take public transportation, it is recommended to walk, ride or take private cars or shuttles to and from work. If you have to take public transportation, public trams are preferred. Be sure to wear a mask throughout the journey. Avoid touching objects in the car with your hands during the journey. When you leave work, wash your hands and wear a disposable medical mask, and when you return home, wash your hands after removing the mask. Use disinfectant wipes or 75% alcohol to wipe your cell phone and keys. Keep your home ventilated and hygienically clean, and avoid multi-person gatherings.
Disinfection of public areas and air conditioners
Public areas such as foyers, hallways, conference rooms, elevators, stairs, and restrooms must be disinfected daily, using spray disinfection whenever possible. The cleaning utensils used in each area should be separated to avoid mixing. In addition to daily routine cleaning and disinfection, bathrooms should be disinfected regularly and air disinfection should be carried out by spray.
