If an elderly person in a nursing home has suspicious symptoms such as fever, cough, mild nausea, weakness, slightly poor mental health, nausea and vomiting, diarrhea, headache, panic, chest tightness, conjunctivitis, mild muscle pain in the limbs or lower back, the nursing home should also take the following measures:
(1) The elderly single room to isolate themselves and avoid close contact with other people.
(2) Assessment of their health status by medical personnel, depending on the condition of the disease sent to medical institutions for medical treatment, should wear a medical surgical mask on the way to medical treatment, and try to avoid taking public transportation.
(3) promptly contact the local community health agency or the CDC for guidance and assistance with related investigations and dispositions. Those who have had close contact with a person with suspected symptoms without effective protection should be registered immediately and placed under medical observation.
4) Suspension of visitation activities.
5) Reduce unnecessary gatherings, dinners and other group activities, and do not arrange centralized meals.
(6) If an elderly person with suspicious symptoms is diagnosed with novel coronavirus pneumonia, his or her close contacts should be placed under medical observation for 14 days. After the patient leaves (e.g., hospitalization, death, etc.), final disinfection of the residence should be performed promptly. The specific disinfection method should be operated or directed by professionals from the local CDC agency or a qualified third party. The residence is not recommended for use without disinfection.
(3) farmers' markets, birds, flowers, insects and fish markets, live poultry (livestock) trading markets
1）Keep the workplace clean and hygienic and air circulation, daily cleaning and disinfection. To clean mainly, disinfection as a supplement. It is recommended that the market operators selling live animals (poultry, seafood, wild animals, etc.) after the close of business each day, to do "three clean and one disinfection" - clear: the stall scales, offal, feces, chicken feathers, scraps, other garbage and other dirt clean; clean. Use water to clean the countertop, ground, drainage ditch and ground around the store; disinfection: mainly disinfect the cleaned countertop, slaughtering tools, cutting board utensils, cages, stall ground; cleaning: rinse the disinfected utensils, countertop, cutting board, etc. with clean water. In addition, it is recommended that the market be cleaned regularly, emptied of any live poultry (livestock) stockpile; thoroughly remove feces, garbage and debris; dredge sewers, and clean the stall floor, walls, and the environment around the store; and thoroughly disinfect after a comprehensive cleaning.
When disinfecting, for the surface of objects with more human contact, use 500mg/L chlorine-containing disinfectant for spraying or wiping disinfection, and then wash with water after 30 minutes of action. For objects that are not resistant to corrosion, 75% alcohol or 0.1% benzalkonium bromide (Neosporin) can be used for wiping and disinfection, and safety should be observed when using it. For large areas of floors and walls, a chlorine disinfectant solution with an effective chlorine level of 500-1000mg/L can be used for spraying, the amount of spraying should be wet and without dripping, and the action time should be not less than 30 minutes.
(2) Garbage and feces should be concentrated for harmless treatment, and garbage transporters and hand-push garbage collection vehicles should be stored and transported in an airtight manner to improve garbage collection, transportation and treatment. Clean garbage daily to reduce the density of flies.
(3) strengthen vector biological control. Install and implement anti-rodent, anti-mosquito and anti-fly facilities for use, improve the farmers' market vector biological control facilities; market ground hard bottom, ditches to be dredged, potholes ground to be filled, wall holes and cracks to be plugged and wiped, sewers and ditches to be sealed, sewer openings to install anti-rodent facilities; processing, sales, storage of directly imported food premises rooms to be equipped with screens, screen doors, wind curtain machines, screen covers, glass cabinets and other anti-fly facilities;. In and around the market to be placed in accordance with the relevant requirements of poisonous rodent house, regularly put poisonous rodent bait to reduce rodent density; regular inspections to remove all types of small containers of stagnant water, check the market flower store stagnant water to reduce the breeding of mosquitoes and insects.
