(7) When symptoms such as fever, malaise, dry cough and chest tightness occur, you should immediately wear a mask and seek medical attention in a timely manner to avoid attending classes with illness. When a student or teacher is diagnosed with novel coronavirus infection, his or her close contacts should be placed under medical observation for 14 days. Schools and child care institutions are responsible for home visits to contact students who have left school or school to learn about their daily health status. Implement a daily and zero reporting system according to the requirements of disease prevention and control agencies to keep track of the daily increase or decrease of students with cases. Cooperate with the health and wellness department to handle the epidemic and other tasks.
(2) Nursing homes
During the disease epidemic, it is recommended that the nursing home implement closed management, in principle, do not receive visits from outsiders, the elderly can not leave the hospital to go out, no longer accept new elderly residents, the elderly who must go out should be closely observed after returning to the nursing home.
Daily preventive measures:
(1) Ensure that staff and nursing seniors master personal protective measures, hand hygiene requirements, sanitation and health habits to prevent novel coronavirus pneumonia, avoid sharing personal belongings, pay attention to ventilation, and implement disinfection measures.
2) Establish health records of the elderly and staff, and conduct daily morning checkups and health registration.
(3) Once the staff appear fever, cough, mild nausea, weakness, slightly poor mental, nausea and vomiting, diarrhea, headache, panic, chest tightness, conjunctivitis, mild limb or back muscle pain and other suspicious symptoms of new coronavirus infection, should immediately stop working and go to the hospital for medical examination and investigation, to exclude new coronavirus infection and other infectious diseases before re-entering the workplace.
(4) Establish a registration system for visitors. If visitors have suspicious symptoms of novel coronavirus infection, their visits should be refused. All foreign visitors should wear medical surgical masks. Those with suspicious symptoms should refuse to visit.
(5) ventilation to keep the indoor air fresh. Open the windows for at least 30 minutes every half day; if it is not suitable to open the windows for ventilation, mechanical ventilation equipment should be equipped to ensure that there is no indoor odor; during the epidemic season of respiratory infectious diseases, indoor ventilation should be strengthened, and if necessary, it is appropriate to use circulating air disinfection machines and other air disinfection; regularly clean and disinfect the air conditioning ventilation system. When opening windows in winter, attention should be paid to avoid colds caused by the large difference between indoor and outdoor temperatures.
(6) Restrooms should be equipped with sufficient hand sanitizer, hand towels or hand dryers to ensure that water supply facilities such as faucets work properly. Advocate the elderly to develop the good habit of washing their hands frequently. Hand cream can be placed by the sink to make it easy to apply after washing hands.
7) Ensure that the environment is clean and sanitary. Frequently dry the bedding and clothes of the elderly. Wipe the tables, chairs and surfaces of objects in the activity room with clean water once a day and disinfect them once or twice a week; wipe the floor, window sills, bedside tables and bed fences in the bedroom with clean water once a day; wipe the door handles, faucets, commode handrails and commode tank buttons with clean water once a day and disinfect them once or twice a week.
(8) Prepare isolation rooms for the isolation and treatment of future elderly with suspected symptoms. The elderly with symptoms should be isolated in time to avoid transmission to other elderly. The isolation room should be set in a single room that is not densely populated, well ventilated, with a separate bathroom, and downwind of the nursing home. Use independent air conditioning as much as possible, if you need to use central air conditioning, the new air system should be turned off. The domestic garbage in the isolation area should be collected uniformly and treated as medical waste.
