Communities and families stock up on essential prevention and control items and supplies, such as thermometers, masks, disinfection supplies, etc.
(ii) The emergence of cases or outbreaks in the community
The strategy of "internal prevention of spread and external prevention of export" includes the six measures mentioned above, as well as close contact management and disinfection.
7. Close contact management
Give full play to the role of community preventive health doctors, family contracted doctors, community cadres and other grid managers to conduct screening and implement home or centralized medical observation of close contacts of confirmed cases of pneumonia with novel coronavirus infection, and centralized observation sites should be clearly defined where available. Daily follow-up visits to the health status of close contacts, instructing the observation subjects to monitor changes in their own situation more sensitively and keep records. Make preparations for isolation control and transfer of patients to designated hospitals, etc.
8. Disinfection
The community should assist the CDC to disinfect the case homes, building units, unit offices, conference rooms and other epidemic points, as well as clean and disinfected public places.
(iii) Community-transmitted epidemics
The strategy of "internal prevention of spread and external prevention of export" includes the 8 measures mentioned above, as well as the 2 measures of blocking the infected area and restricting the gathering of people.
9. Blockade of infected areas: Communities classified as infected areas may take measures to blockade the infected areas if necessary, restrict the access of people, and temporarily requisition houses and transportation.
10. Restrict the gathering of people: Restrict or stop activities such as fairs, rallies and other gatherings of people in the community, and close public baths, spas, theaters, Internet cafes, KTVs, shopping malls and other public places. If necessary, suspend work, business and classes.
(1) Public places with heavy flow of people and high mobility
