With the development of the epidemic, people have gradually become more aware of the harmful effects of the virus. As with SARS, the new coronavirus is a general susceptibility of the population. Young adults are less ill after infection, and may only show symptoms such as low fever and malaise; the elderly and those with underlying diseases are more ill after infection, and even show heavy or critical illness, with a poorer prognosis; children are susceptible to the new coronavirus, but have relatively mild symptoms after infection, and are much less likely to become seriously ill. The virus easily attacks human lung tissue and causes "pneumonia". Further research is needed to determine whether infection is immunogenic; the proportion of true asymptomatic infections is not known, but is relatively rare and is not a major driver of transmission.
Lung and immune system damage is predominant after neo-coronavirus infection. Other organs vary depending on the underlying disease and are mostly secondary to damage.2020 From February 16 to 24, 2020, a team from Huazhong University of Science and Technology completed the pathologic autopsy of the remains of nine cases of new coronavirus pneumonia. A report on the gross observations of the systematic autopsy of dead bodies with novel coronavirus pneumonia was published in the February 2020 advance issue of the Journal of Forensic Medicine. The report showed that the lesions of the new coronavirus infection remained focused on the lungs, considering that the ground glass-like shadow seen on imaging corresponded to the grayish-white lesions of the alveoli seen with the naked eye, suggesting that new coronavirus pneumonia mainly caused an inflammatory response characterized by deep airway and alveolar damage; the fibrosis and solid changes in the lungs were not as severe as those caused by SARS, while the exudative response was more pronounced than that of SARS, which may be related to the fact that this patient had only 15 days from diagnosis to death and the disease duration This may be related to the shorter duration of illness from diagnosis to death in this patient.
In addition, regarding the nervous system, the report concluded that cerebral edema and mild atrophy of the cerebral cortex were seen on visual inspection. Combined with the clinical data, the patient was old, had multiple cerebral infarcts and sequelae of cerebrovascular disease, no infection-specific manifestations were seen on visual inspection of the brain, and whether the virus invaded the central nervous system is to be verified histopathologically. Further studies are needed to determine whether there are signs of damage to the myocardium and epicardium, kidneys, spleen, and gastrointestinal organs associated with viral infection.
Usually the virus is transmitted in several ways: first, droplet transmission, through droplets generated by coughing, sneezing, and talking into susceptible mucosal surfaces; second, contact transmission: touching one's mouth, nose, or eyes after touching something an infected person has touched leads to virus transmission; third, aerosol transmission: the possibility of transmission exists when the pathogen is exposed to high concentrations of aerosols in a relatively closed environment for a long time; and Viral nucleic acids can be detected in the stool of patients with confirmed novel coronavirus, suggesting the possible presence of the virus, but there is no clear evidence of a gastrointestinal mode of transmission. For novel coronaviruses, isolation and protection measures for each of these routes should be done.
The "Treatment protocol for novel coronavirus pneumonia (trial version 7)" issued by the National Health and Wellness Commission specifies that droplet transmission via the respiratory tract is the main route of novel coronavirus transmission. Infected persons cough, sneeze and talk when they discharge secretions and droplets, and susceptible persons inhale and become infected, but droplets have a limited distance of transmission in the air, and the activity of the virus decreases significantly after 2 hours. However, it has been suggested that novel coronaviruses can also be transmitted through aerosols, where droplets are mixed in the air to form aerosols that can remain in the air for a long period of time and be inhaled by humans and infected. The environment where the risk of aerosol exposure is high is in hospitals, where it is generated during operations such as tracheal intubation/extraction, chest compressions, bronchoscopy, and nebulizer therapy. In addition, droplets can settle on the surfaces of surrounding objects or through indirect contact, and the virus enters the body through the eyes, nasal and oral mucosa. Currently, some studies have isolated novel coronaviruses in the feces and urine of infected patients, and attention should be paid to fecal and urine contamination of the environment causing aerosol or contact transmission.
Although respiratory droplet transmission is the main route of transmission of novel coronavirus, contact transmission is also one of the routes of transmission of novel coronavirus. Direct contact transmission refers to the infection of susceptible people who come into contact with various body secretions of patients, such as saliva, tears, urine, vomit and other secretions and excretions.
Although there are no experimental studies to determine the concentration of the virus in body fluids and excretions of patients, the general public is still advised to avoid contact with the secretions and excretions of patients, or to avoid contact with all secretions and excretions of others for precautionary reasons. In case of inadvertent contact, disinfection should be carried out promptly. Many studies have shown that there is indirect contact transmission of novel coronaviruses. Some studies have shown that novel coronavirus can survive for several hours on smooth surfaces such as door handles and elevator buttons, and even for several days if the temperature (22-25°C) and humidity (40%-50%) are suitable, suggesting attention to environmental disinfection.
Recently, studies have demonstrated the possibility of aerosol transmission of novel coronavirus, and health care should take the necessary precautions. For non-medical personnel, aerosol transmission is an extremely rare mode of transmission. However, viral nucleic acid can be detected in the feces of patients with confirmed novel coronavirus, so care should be taken to cover the toilet lid when flushing the toilet, disinfect the toilet regularly, and pay attention to the disinfection treatment of sewage in the sewer system in all communities and villages with confirmed or suspected cases.
Recent reports indicate that, following several cases of novel coronavirus infection in children, cases of novel coronavirus infection in newborns have been identified. on February 5, 2020, two cases of novel coronavirus pneumonia in newborns were diagnosed in Tongji Hospital, affiliated with Tongji Medical College of Huazhong University of Science and Technology, with the youngest diagnosed being born just 30 hours ago. Although there is no definite evidence of vertical mother-to-child transmission of novel coronavirus, the possibility of vertical transmission still exists and needs to be given high priority.
For the traceability of the novel coronavirus, on February 29, the National Health Commission released the "China-WHO Joint Expedition Report on Novel Coronavirus Pneumonia (COVID-19)" in which it was mentioned that bats appear to be the host of the virus, but intermediate hosts have not been identified. The identification of an intermediate host requires a rigorous and recognized scientific process, including: isolation of a replicating virus in the intermediate host; isolation of a virus that can show pathogenicity and pathological characteristics in an animal model; confirmation of the position of the virus in the chain of infection transmission (is it transmitted to humans by animals carrying the virus, or to animals by humans who have already transmitted the virus?) etc. In conclusion, the current study has not been able to identify the intermediate host of this novel coronavirus and further scientific studies are needed.
Novel coronavirus pneumonia is characterized by fever, malaise, and dry cough. A small number of patients have symptoms such as nasal congestion, runny nose and diarrhea. More than half of the patients may present with dyspnea. Patients with the mild form only present with low-grade fever and mild malaise, with no pneumonia manifestations. Patients with the common type have imaging signs of pneumonia. Patients with mild and common forms need to be monitored closely, and some patients may progress to severe disease. Severely ill patients tend to develop respiratory distress and/or hypoxemia 1 week after onset, and in severe cases, rapid onset of acute respiratory distress syndrome, septic shock, uncorrectable metabolic acidosis and coagulopathy, and multi-organ failure. A small number of patients with severe and critical illnesses may have moderate to low fever or even no significant fever during the course of the disease. Some patients only present with low-grade fever and mild malaise, without pneumonia manifestations, and mostly recover after 1 week.
Current epidemiological surveys show that the incubation period of novel coronaviruses is 1 to 14 days, mostly 3 to 7 days. The incubation period is infectious, which means that during the time when individuals have been infected with the virus but have not developed the disease, there is also the possibility of infecting others, which increases the difficulty of controlling the outbreak.
