It is essential to wash your hands regularly and in the right way as it can effectively cut off the transmission of the virus.
You should wash your hands promptly after coughing and sneezing, before and after touching outsiders or caring for patients, before and after preparing food, before eating, after going to the bathroom, after touching animals, after handling garbage, after outdoor sports, homework, shopping, and after touching money. If the dirt on your hands is not visible, use a no-rinse hand sanitizer that contains alcohol. Reduce contact with common objects and parts of public places; try to avoid touching your mouth, nose and eyes with your hands when you are not sure if your hands are thoroughly clean.
Hand washing must be done with running water, not basin water, and rubbing time should be at least 20 seconds. You can't just wash your hands with water, you have to use soap or hand sanitizer to effectively remove pathogenic bacteria. If soap is used, the soap should be kept clean and dry. It is best to use hand sanitizer in disposable packages, such as using replacement packs, and to clean and disinfect the container before each dispense; when the soap is cloudy or discolored, it should be replaced. If you use alcohol-based hand sanitizer, please pay attention to the expiration date of "use after opening" in the product description, generally not more than 30 days after opening the bottle; do not "rub" dry on your clothes after washing your hands, prepare dry hand towels or dryers in advance.
Hand washing steps should be done correctly (Figure 8).
1) Wet your hands under running water.
2) Take an appropriate amount of hand sanitizer (soap) and apply it evenly to the entire palm, back of the hand, fingers and fingertips.
(3) carefully rub hands for at least 15 seconds, as follows: a. palms relative to each other, fingers together, rubbing each other; b. palms and hands along the back of the fingers rubbing each other, exchange; c. palms relative to each other, hands cross fingers rubbing each other; d. bend fingers so that the knuckles in the other hand palm rotating rubbing, exchange; e. right hand holding the left thumb rotating rubbing, exchange; f. will be five finger tips together in the palm of the other hand, rotating and rubbing, and exchanging.
4) Rinse hands thoroughly under running water.
5) Dry your hands and take an appropriate amount of hand lotion for skin care.
(C) diligent ventilation, maintain a clean living and working environment
Diligently open windows, more ventilation, ventilation 2 to 3 times a day, no less than 30 minutes each time, need to pay attention to the temperature difference between indoor and outdoor and cause colds and the adaptation of the population. Families with conditions can also use circulating air disinfection machines, which are recommended to be used with windows and doors closed. Air conditioning filters and filters should be cleaned and disinfected monthly. The disinfection method can be used with an effective chlorine content of 250mg/L chlorine disinfection solution sprayed until wet, the role of 30 minutes. The cleaning and disinfection methods for different environments can be referred to the relevant contents of the third, fourth, fifth and sixth parts of this chapter.
(1) Reduce unnecessary going out, especially during the Spring Festival, you should visit friends and relatives and gather less, cancel the plan of going out for travel and visiting relatives, and try to rest at home; avoid going to closed, airless public places and crowded places, such as: shopping malls, stations, theaters, Internet cafes, exhibition halls, etc.
