(E) disposable medical surgical masks, medical protective masks, protective clothing or isolation clothing and other protective supplies are contaminated with patient blood, body fluids, secretions, etc. should be replaced immediately.
(vi) personal hygiene disposal should be carried out before work, and attention to respiratory and mucous membrane protection.
Patients who unfortunately develop novel coronavirus pneumonia not only suffer physically, but also undergo tremendous psychological stress. Due to the lack of specific treatment and the highly contagious nature of the disease, patients not only face an unprecedented fear of death, but also fear for the safety of family and friends with whom they have had contact, and are plunged into a deep sense of self-blame. For each patient, this is a sudden life crisis. At this time, if you feel anxiety, fear, anger, helplessness, etc., are normal emotional reactions, the first thing patients should do is to adapt to the hospital environment and treatment process, trust the medical staff, and actively cooperate with treatment; then try to control negative emotions, such as pessimism, self-blame, self-hatred, tension; promote positive emotions, such as self-confidence, optimism, courage, etc.
In addition, there are specific measures that patients can take to "help themselves".
(1) The seriousness of the situation should be evaluated correctly. Because novel coronavirus pneumonia is a serious infectious disease that requires hospitalization and isolation and a period of time away from family members, it is important to be prepared to endure isolation. This is especially important for patients who are dependent and young.
(2) Actively obtain information about the disease and treatment, and correctly evaluate your condition and estimate the prognosis. Neither underestimate the disease, full of care; nor blindly exaggerate, thinking that once the disease, will certainly die. So far, patients with novel coronavirus pneumonia have been cured and very few have died. Learn about medical care, learn to take care of yourself, and report any discomfort to your health care provider.
(3) Learn to express your inner needs and feelings. Vent negative emotions such as helplessness, disappointment and dissatisfaction in a timely manner, do not keep them inside and do not worry about others laughing at your cowardice. You can communicate with your patients, exchange emotions and views, and get stable emotional support from each other; or take the initiative to consult with health care professionals to get professional guidance.
(4) Determine specific and limited life goals according to the actual situation. For example, how to cooperate with the hospital to eliminate symptoms and restore health as soon as possible, which is the most important thing at present; and not to think too much about things outside the hospital, such as family arrangements.
(5) By evaluating the disease and estimating the prognosis, it is necessary to revise the life goals before the disease and rebuild realistic and feasible future life goals. It is important to be prepared for the possibility that the previously established work and study plans or life arrangements may change due to the disease.
Home isolates, who have not yet been diagnosed, often bear greater psychological stress. Therefore, home isolates should actively adjust their mindset and adopt coping strategies, which on the one hand can reduce the adverse emotions that trigger somatization symptoms, and on the other hand can help their immune system to improve to fight against the virus.
(1) Understanding of real and reliable information and knowledge
It helps us to collect as much authoritative information as possible, to learn in detail about the disease, and to have a clear understanding of the real epidemic, the possibility of transmission, the damage of the disease to the body and the mortality rate, etc. This helps us to be psychologically stable.
