Infants cannot wear masks, so passive protection is the norm for infants under 1 year of age. Infants need to be dressed appropriately and not overly warmed or cooled. Do not feed your child after trying or chewing food with your mouth (including not feeding your child after blowing on cool food with your mouth) and do not share utensils with your child. Be sure to disinfect your child's belongings, toys and utensils regularly. If unnecessary, try to go out without your child, especially not to public places or confined spaces; try not to take public transportation when you go out and stay as far away from other people as possible (keep a distance of at least 1 meter). Wash your hands carefully before playing with your child. Parents should change their clothes and wash their hands before holding their children after coming home from a trip. The home should be regularly ventilated, and when it is ventilated, the child can be moved to another room to avoid catching a cold.
Caregivers need to take the initiative to wear a mask, do not kiss the baby, and do not cough, sneeze, or exhale into the baby. If you have to cough or sneeze be sure to cover your mouth and nose with a tissue (if it is too late to use a tissue, then apply your arm to completely cover your mouth and nose and then wash your arm thoroughly) and throw the contaminated tissue into a closed bin (bucket) immediately and wash your hands carefully with running water. Parents who have respiratory illnesses or symptoms such as fever, runny nose, coughing and sneezing should also wear a mask at home and isolate themselves properly at home.
Children should avoid going outside during this novel coronavirus pneumonia epidemic; if they must go outside, they should wear a mask when they go out, and they should wear a mask in hospitals, confined spaces, and crowded places, but not in ventilated spaces with low population density. In addition, children should be instructed to keep a distance of more than 1 meter from other people in confined spaces and crowded places; develop good hygiene habits, do not touch everywhere, and do not touch or rub the mouth, nose, eyes and other parts with unclean hands. The method of wearing mask and precautions can be found in the section of "(1) Wearing Mask" in Chapter 3 "1. General Precautions".
For children who do not like to wear masks, first of all, parents should buy disposable medical masks for children that are suitable for children, these masks will have some patterns or colors that are more acceptable to children. For younger children, parents can play role-playing, games and stories, and wear them together with the child in front of a mirror, and don't rush at first, but try a few more times to make the child feel less resistant and unfamiliar with the mask. When wearing the mask, help the child adjust the position of the mask to make the child more comfortable and less resistant. If children are unable to wear a mask, they should stay at home as much as possible, reduce going out, practice good hand hygiene, develop good and safe eating habits, and have parents do a good job of personal protection and home cleaning and disinfection ventilation to indirectly protect their children.
After children go home and take off their clothes, if there are conditions, they can use ultraviolet light or alcohol to spray their coats; if there are no such conditions, they can also take off their clothes and put them in a fixed position and change their shoes after entering the house. Then the child should be guided to wash hands carefully, hand washing methods and precautions can be found in the universal precautions section; after hand washing is completed, the face can be washed, and if the child cooperates, the nasal cavity can be washed and the mouth rinsed, and the mouth rinsed with either light salt water or water, and the child can spit it out after rinsing. However, it is worth noting that ultraviolet light can cause damage to the skin and eyes, and the ozone produced can also stimulate the respiratory tract, causing sore throat, chest tightness and coughing, which can also lead to dizziness and headache, so all people must leave the disinfection room during UV irradiation to avoid damage, and should be ventilated for some time after disinfection. In addition, the disinfection area of home UV disinfection lamps is related to their power.
Children may be seen in the emergency room if they present with fever symptoms at 39°C. ①Infants under 3 months old with a temperature >40℃ should be seen in the hospital promptly. ②Infants 3 to 6 months old, if their body temperature is below 38℃ and they eat milk and respond mentally as usual, they can monitor their body temperature and observe the general condition of the infant before considering whether to go to the hospital; if their body temperature exceeds 38℃, they should seek medical attention at any time; even if they do not have the above-mentioned conditions, but have fever for more than 24 hours, they should go to the hospital outpatient clinic. ③For children 6 months to 2 years old, if the child has only a slightly poor mental response to the fever, but plays freely after the temperature has dropped to normal, the child may be observed; if the fever lasts more than 24 hours, the child may go to the hospital for consultation. In addition to temperature, if the child has poor mental response (weak mental response even after the fever subsides), crying and difficult to soothe, decreased milk intake, vomiting, diarrhea, low urination, joint and/or muscle pain, headache, chills, coughing and wheezing, difficulty breathing, and convulsions, go to the hospital. Another easy way to determine this is to see if the child has signs or symptoms that are significantly different from usual, in addition to fever, and if so, seek immediate medical attention.
Special Note: During the current epidemic of novel coronavirus infection, children with a temperature above 37.3°C and any of the following conditions should be seen directly at the fever clinic: (i) a history of travel or residence in Wuhan 14 days prior to the onset of illness; (ii) exposure to a patient with fever and respiratory symptoms from Wuhan within 14 days prior to the onset of illness; (iii) a family with a cluster of patients with fever.
Some symptoms of novel coronavirus pneumonia are similar to those of the common cold, such as fever, weakness of the limbs, dry cough, etc. There are also cases with insignificant symptoms, or symptoms of other systems such as digestive, cardiovascular, neurological, ophthalmic symptoms, etc. Symptoms may be more atypical in newborns and infants, and once detected, the disease progresses rapidly or the observation period has been missed.
The major differences between novel coronavirus infection and common cold are: diarrhea, breathing gradually becomes difficult, such as: breathing too fast or too slow, breathing too deep or too shallow, and in infants or newborns, open-mouth breathing, wheezing, moaning, nasal flapping (nostrils opening and closing), nodding breathing, and even lip and face color changes (cyanosis) and respiratory trigeminal signs. If any of these symptoms occur, please seek immediate medical attention!
Parents with home isolation of suspected cases should try to ensure that the rooms are separated to avoid contact between suspected parents and children, and suspected parents should wear appropriate masks at home (no protective masks with breathing valves), and children should also wear appropriate masks correctly. If possible, you should choose N95 medical mask for children first, and the rest in the order of children's medical protective masks → children's medical masks → disposable masks → children's cotton masks. After contact with suspected patients, children should take the initiative to be isolated and observed at home for 14 days, no symptoms can be released from isolation but try not to go out. As soon as there are symptoms, go to the fever clinic of the pediatric department of the nearest hospital and inform the doctor of the risk factors.
For children who need to be vaccinated during the outbreak, delayed vaccination should be determined on a case-by-case basis. In principle, the delay in vaccination will not affect the effectiveness of immunization and can be replaced in time. In addition, some vaccines that need to be given several times in a row can be temporarily interrupted for some reasons, and the temporary "interruption" will not cause the previous vaccines to be "wasted. However, there are some vaccines that cannot be delayed even during an epidemic of new coronavirus infections, such as rabies vaccine, for which the first dose must be given on the day of the bite. It is recommended to pay close attention to the dynamics of childhood vaccination clinics. If you must go out, you should be protected to avoid infection.
For children with chronic illnesses that require regular review, it is important to follow the primary care physician's assessment of the child's condition and not to make any decisions. If the physician can communicate with parents through online forms to monitor the child's disease, determine the efficacy and maintain the continuity and effectiveness of treatment, the number of hospital visits can be reduced. However, if the disease does not allow, changes or even deteriorates, the child should be seen promptly. During the visit, both the child and the parents should be well protected, especially they should wear a mask throughout the visit, not touching everywhere and not touching the mouth, nose and eyes with unclean hands. If possible, have the necessary tests performed nearby and send the results to the treating doctor online to guide the next treatment.
