Implementing the strategy of "external prevention and importation", specific measures include organizational mobilization, health education, information, management of returnees from infected areas, environmental health management, and material preparation.
1.Organizational mobilization
Communities should establish an organizational system for the prevention and control of pneumonia outbreaks of new coronavirus infections, with street (township) and community (village) cadres, community health service centers and family doctors as the main focus, and encourage the participation of residents and volunteers to form a combination of full-time and part-time work teams, implement grid-based, carpet management, responsibility for the implementation of full coverage of the community (village), building (natural village), family, and the implementation of prevention and control Measures.
2. Health education
Make full use of a variety of means to carry out targeted pneumonia prevention and control knowledge of new coronavirus infection, actively advocate hygiene, eliminate bad habits, abandon littering, spitting and other uncivilized behavior, to create "everyone is the first person responsible for their own health" "my health I am in charge "The good atmosphere. Make the public fully understand the health knowledge, grasp the key points of protection, develop hand hygiene, more ventilation, keep clean good habits, reduce travel, avoid attending rallies, parties, take public transportation or go to crowded places to do a good job of protection, wear a mask, avoid contact with animals (especially wild animals), birds or their droppings.
3．Information
Disseminate information to the public about medical consultation; those with respiratory symptoms without fever go to community health protection centers (township health centers), those with fever go to fever clinics, and those with novel coronavirus infections go to sentinel hospitals. Daily information on local and local community outbreaks is released to suggest travel and travel risks.
4. Management of returnees from infected areas
Communities should issue notices requiring that people returning from infected areas should immediately register at their village branch or community and go to the local health center or village doctor or community health service center for medical checkups twice a day, while taking the initiative to self-isolate for 14 days. All those returning from infected areas with febrile respiratory symptoms should promptly seek medical clearance nearby and be isolated at home or at a government-designated location or hospital as required; their close contacts should also immediately self-isolate at home or at a locally designated location. During the isolation period, please keep in touch with local medical personnel or the CDC for follow-up observation.
5. Environmental health management
The community carries out comprehensive vector-biological prevention and control, mainly environmental remediation, supplemented by drug disinfection, and carries out sanitary cleaning of key places such as residential neighborhoods, garbage transfer stations and construction sites, disposes of garbage and dirt, and eliminates the breeding environment for rodents, cockroaches, mosquitoes, flies and other vector-biological organisms. Timely organization of comprehensive vector control and extermination to effectively reduce the density of vector organisms.
6. Material preparation
