In the early stages of novel coronavirus pneumonia, patients may present with symptoms such as headache, nasal congestion, sneezing and coughing, similar to the flu and the common cold. However, there is actually a clear difference between them.
(1) Suspected symptoms in yourself or your family
If you or your family members develop: ① symptoms of acute respiratory infection such as fever (axillary body temperature ≥37.3℃), cough, shortness of breath, etc., ② history of travel or residence in Wuhan or other areas with persistent transmission of local cases, or have been in contact with patients with fever with respiratory symptoms from Wuhan or other areas with persistent transmission of local cases within 14 days before the onset of fever, ③ emergence of aggregated illness (within 2 weeks in a small area such as home, office, school class, etc., with 2 or more cases of fever and/or respiratory symptoms), you should go to the fever clinic of the designated hospital for consultation.
Wear a mask throughout the journey to the doctor, avoid public transportation, take a private car or call an ambulance, and stay as far away as possible from other people (at least 1 meter) on the road and in the hospital. When seeking medical attention, you should give a detailed account of your illness and the process of seeking medical attention. In particular, you should inform the doctor of your recent history of travel and residence in Wuhan, your history of contact with patients or suspected patients with pneumonia, and your history of animal contact. Before and after seeking medical attention, you may refer to "(1) Home environment" and "(2) Private car" in Chapter 3, "3. Home precautions" to clean and disinfect the surrounding environment.
Upon arrival at the fever clinic, the nurse will measure the temperature for a temperature above 37.3°C and ask for an epidemiological history. For patients with fever and an epidemiological history, the doctor will arrange for routine blood tests, liver and kidney functions, cardiac enzymes, and X-ray chest radiographs. Once the test results are available, the fever clinic doctor will make a judgment based on the results, and if novel coronavirus pneumonia is suspected, the hospital will request a consultation with a specialist. During this period, febrile patients will be placed in isolation for observation. If novel coronavirus pneumonia is suspected, the hospital will refer the patient to a designated hospital for isolation treatment and pathogenic testing.
(2) Designated hospitals and fever clinics
The list of designated hospitals and fever clinics can be found on the official websites of provincial and municipal health care commissions, or you can check the nearby fever clinics and medical treatment designated hospitals under the "fever clinics" section on the home page of the State Council client (Figure 2).
(3) The principles of medical treatment for patients with other diseases during the epidemic
In principle, during an epidemic, people should go to hospitals as little as possible or not at all unless they must seek immediate medical attention for patients with acute and critical illnesses; if they must seek medical attention, they should choose a medical institution nearby that can meet the demand and has a low outpatient volume; if they must go to a hospital, they can have only necessary and urgent medical tests and medical operations done, and other items and operations should be made up at a later date if possible; if they can choose the department to visit, they should avoid If possible, avoid fever clinics, emergency departments, etc.
There are three conditions that must be immediately sought: first, the emergence of medical emergencies, such as the elderly or people with underlying diseases suddenly appear panic, dizziness, chest tightness, etc., must immediately seek medical attention; second, surgical emergencies, such as the emergence of severe pancreatitis, intestinal perforation or appendicitis and other acute abdominal diseases, must immediately go to the hospital; third, children with fever, if children have a fever of more than 39 ℃, bad spirit, and poor appetite, go to the hospital, lest the disease develop into a serious one.
For tumor patients, different types of tumor patients have different medical consultations: ① Routine review patients: for patients with routine review of malignant tumors, it is recommended to slightly delay the review without affecting the prognosis of the disease; the review advocates network consultation and suggests that patients can postpone the review if they have no special discomfort and try to avoid hospitalization for review. ②Patients with elective surgery: patients with benign tumors and patients in remission of malignant tumors after comprehensive treatment are recommended to moderately defer surgical treatment; for patients with progressive malignant tumors, surgical treatment should be carried out under risk-controllable conditions after comprehensive and detailed assessment of patients' physical status and surgical risks. ③Patients in chemotherapy period: For patients who are old and frail and have poor immune status with repeated chemotherapy, the dose of chemotherapy drugs can be moderately reduced or the chemotherapy cycle can be extended without significantly affecting the efficacy. For patients with postoperative adjuvant chemotherapy, it is recommended that chemotherapy can be performed at the local hospital or the outpatient clinic of the original hospital as scheduled, and that chemotherapy can be moderately delayed under the premise that good communication with the physician has little impact on the prognosis of the tumor. Patients with radiotherapy: It is recommended to continue treatment in an orderly manner according to the overall arrangement of the hospital, and synchronous chemotherapy can be moderately delayed. For patients who are ready to start radiotherapy, under the premise of not affecting the prognosis of the tumor, radiotherapy should be moderately delayed according to the arrangement of the doctor in charge. ⑤ Immunotherapy patients: Immunotherapy is still possible after rigorous evaluation. If adverse reactions occur, the medical team should be informed as soon as possible, please do not cope with the occurrence of adverse reactions alone.
(4) Patients with severe headache or even epileptic seizure must go to hospital; (5) Increasing eating disorder is a manifestation of tumor progression and must go to hospital for treatment; (6) Severe vomiting and diarrhea, no matter what the cause is, will lead to dehydration and endanger life, so it is necessary to go to hospital immediately to find out the cause and give corresponding symptomatic treatment; (7) Sudden appearance of urinary and fecal dysfunction requires immediate medical attention. It is necessary to go to the hospital immediately to find the cause; ⑧ other serious symptoms.
