4) Both shopping at the market and market staff need to wear masks, and try to wear medical masks or medical surgical masks. Keep a safe distance of more than 1 meter when interacting with others in the market; stay away from wild animals. Do not touch, buy and eat wild animals and try to avoid stalls selling live poultry, wild animals, etc.
In this outbreak of novel coronavirus pneumonia, many of the most seriously ill patients are middle-aged and elderly. For elderly people with underlying diseases, once infected, they are very prone to critical illness, multi-organ failure and even death, so they should be better protected.
The respiratory tract of the elderly is more sensitive and fragile, and products that are less irritating to the respiratory tract of the elderly should be chosen for disinfection. Preferably, use 75% alcohol wipes or alcohol wipes. You can also use 84 disinfectant or other chlorine-based disinfectants to wipe down furniture and floors. However, if the elderly are allergic to chlorine or suffer from respiratory irritation, they should not use it. In addition, a variety of smoked white wine, vinegar, moxibustion and other "prescriptions" spread on the Internet can not achieve the effect of disinfection, and may even cause respiratory discomfort. These methods are equivalent to artificially aggravating indoor air pollution. For the elderly with sensitive respiratory tract or a history of asthma, it is likely to induce respiratory disease and is not recommended.
The elderly should be allowed to stay in the appropriate room temperature to avoid other adverse effects on the body caused by too low or too high room temperature. At the same time, attention should be paid to opening windows regularly to improve indoor air quality and reduce the amount of viruses that may be present. It is recommended to increase the number of ventilation times and reduce the ventilation time, while paying attention to keeping warm.
Special times advocate frequent hand washing to prevent viral infections. However, elderly people have degenerated sebaceous gland function and are prone to dryness, so washing hands regularly is bound to aggravate chapped skin. It is recommended that hand cream be placed by the sink so that they can apply it after washing their hands.
Older adults love to walk around during the New Year holidays. This also increases their risk of being exposed to the virus. An infection in the elderly could lead to serious consequences, so during an outbreak, do not gather for meals or multiple gatherings, and do not host friends or relatives who may be from key outbreak areas. If special needs arise, visit and care for the elderly at home. Visitors should wear masks on the road, take off their coats, change their shoes, wash their hands at the door, and disinfect anything they bring with alcohol before doing anything else to avoid long-term homebound frail seniors being infected by outside visitors.
Various localities have also introduced various policies to reduce the number of elderly people going out, for example, Sichuan Province recently issued a notice requiring all mahjong parlors to suspend operations. It is recommended to spend more time with the elderly at home during the Spring Festival and to actively persuade them to reduce unnecessary going out activities. If they must go out, help them wear the right mask. Ordinary cotton masks have no protective effect. It is recommended that medical surgical masks be used as a priority, followed by medical care masks. However, the use of protective masks such as N95 or KN95 is not recommended for the elderly. These masks have a high respiratory resistance, and after long-term wear, symptoms such as chest tightness, shortness of breath and breathlessness can easily occur, and in serious cases, they can even lead to heart failure.
Seniors should try not to use crowded public transportation when traveling. It is best to walk, take a taxi or have a family member drive them. It is recommended to avoid crowds and choose places with fewer people and good ventilation, such as wearing a mask to walk in a park or outdoors. When you see someone you know, don't take off your mask and keep a distance of more than 1 meter to say hello. For seniors who like to visit food markets, three "don'ts" should be advised: don't go to markets that are not formal and have inadequate disinfection measures; don't buy poultry and seafood from unknown sources; and don't touch live poultry unprotected. Although no formal meat and seafood products have been found to transmit the virus, it is important to note that both meat and eggs must be cooked before eating. Many older adults are frugal and may use masks repeatedly. Be sure to advise that disposable medical masks should only be used once and teach older adults the proper way to put on and take off the mask. For more information, see "(1) Wearing a mask" in Chapter 3, "1. Universal precautions.
During the epidemic, it is recommended that older adults should start with a balanced diet. If there are no special dietary contraindications for the elderly, the intake of high-quality protein (eggs, soy products, fish, etc.), fresh vegetables and seasonal fruits can all be increased appropriately. However, in fact, many elderly people themselves suffer from a variety of diseases, the function of the whole body organs decreases, coupled with the usual chewing and swallowing function decreases, it is difficult to achieve the daily caloric and nutritional needs, resulting in wasting and malnutrition, thus the immune function decreases and more easily infected with viruses. Therefore, the elderly must properly improve their nutritional reserves through proper nutritional supplementation. Given that older adults have limited mobility and sometimes find it difficult to prepare nutritionally complete foods, they can also choose to take oral nutritional supplements for easier, convenient and safe nutritional supplementation. You can choose one of each of the three types of nutritional supplements and use them together: (1) oral whole nutritional supplements; (2) multivitamin-mineral supplements; and (3) high-quality protein supplements.
Some elderly people are easily misled by marketing rumors and buy some so-called "anti-viral" foods. In fact, all foods and supplements on the market that claim to prevent viruses lack clinical evidence, such as garlic, mushrooms, strawberries, red wine, lactoferrin, etc. Although they have some nutritional value to the human body, they are not anti-viral. However, like strawberries such as a balanced nutritional fruit in season, if the elderly "like", eat more is good.
If you have to go to the hospital, it is important that family members as well as the elderly are protected before going to the hospital. Wear a mask and wash your hands promptly. While in the hospital, be careful not to touch the outside of the mask, don't touch it, and wash your hands after taking off the mask. Also be careful to protect others by keeping your distance from people and remembering to block with your elbows when sneezing and coughing.
Children are also one of the susceptible groups, and the main transmission routes of infection are droplets and contact. Conjunctival transmission has also been reported, so infants and children should be more protected.
