In order to improve the knowledge and understanding of the general public and related industries about the novel coronavirus pneumonia, guide personal prevention, reduce the risk of transmission, and prevent the disease scientifically, our society has urgently organized the compilation of the book "Concordia Novel Coronavirus Pneumonia Protection Manual". The book is divided into six parts: understanding novel coronavirus pneumonia, symptoms, medical care, isolation, treatment, preventive measures, prevention for special populations, psychological support, and nutritional advice for novel coronavirus pneumonia protection, to answer the public's questions in the fight against novel coronavirus pneumonia.
The elderly, children and pregnant women are the groups that need special attention in the prevention and control of novel coronavirus pneumonia outbreaks. Therefore, we have developed specific protective measures for these populations, which we hope will be useful.
Please refer to the latest version provided by the QR code at the end of this article for any inaccuracies in the following contents. If there are any errors, please feel free to correct them.
Coronavirus (CoV) belongs to Nidovirales, Coro⁃naviridae, Orthocoronavirinae, and is a class of RNA viruses with a capsid and a linear single-stranded positive-stranded genome. The viral genome has a methylated capsid structure at the 5′ end and a poly(A) tail at the 3′ end, and the genome is 27-32 kb in length, which is the largest genome of any RNA virus known to date. Coronaviruses are widespread in nature and are named for the presence of many small protrusions (spines) on the exterior of the virus, resembling a corolla (Figure 1).
Coronaviruses infect only vertebrates and are associated with a wide range of diseases in humans and animals, causing multiple systemic disease manifestations including respiratory, digestive and neurological diseases as well as cardiovascular system in humans and animals.
According to the phylogenetic tree, coronaviruses can be divided into four genera: α, β, γ, and δ, where β genus coronaviruses can be further divided into four independent subgroups A, B, C, and D groups. Animal coronaviruses include mammalian coronaviruses and avian coronaviruses. Mammalian coronaviruses are mainly α and β genus coronaviruses, which can infect a variety of animals including bats, pigs, dogs, cats, rats, cattle, horses, etc. Avian coronaviruses mainly originate from γ and δ genus coronaviruses, which can cause disease in a variety of avian species such as chickens, turkeys, sparrows, ducks, geese and pigeons.
Coronaviruses that can infect humans are referred to as human coronaviruses. To date, in addition to the novel coronavirus that caused the current outbreak of viral pneumonia in Wuhan, a total of 6 human infectious coronaviruses (HCoV-229E, HCoV-OC43, SARS-CoV, HCoV-NL63, HCoV-HKU1 and MERS-CoV) have been identified. Among them, four coronaviruses cause common human infections but are less pathogenic and generally cause only mild respiratory symptoms similar to the common cold; the other two coronaviruses - severe acute respiratory syndrome coronavirus and Middle East respiratory syndrome coronavirus, also commonly known as SARS coronavirus and MERS coronavirus can cause severe respiratory diseases. According to the World Health Organization (WHO) and domestic experts, the source of the viral pneumonia outbreak was the seventh member of the coronavirus family, which was named COVID-19 by WHO on February 11, where "Co" stands for "coronavirus" and "Vi" stands for "coronavirus. On February 11, the World Health Organization named it COVID-19, where "Co" stands for "coronavirus", "Vi" for "virus", and "D" for "disease". On the same day, the International Committee on Taxonomy of Viruses (ICTV) announced its official classification as SARS-CoV-2, which is the same "species" as SARS virus. A Chinese research team discovered that the new coronavirus has recently generated 149 mutation sites and evolved two subtypes, subtype L and subtype S. It was found that these two subtypes showed great measurement differences in terms of geographical distribution and proportion in the population. The S subtype is relatively old, while the L subtype is more aggressive and more infectious. An in-depth understanding of the different subtypes will help to differentiate the treatment and prevention and control of NCCP.
Most of the knowledge on the physicochemical properties of human coronaviruses comes from studies on SARS-CoV and MERS-CoV. Coronaviruses are sensitive to heat and are moderately stable in suitable maintenance solution at 4°C and can be stored for several years at -60°C. However, the activity of the virus decreases with increasing temperature, e.g., HCoV-229E can lose its infectivity at 56°C for 10 minutes or 37°C for several hours, SARS-CoV can survive for 4 days at 37°C, and heating at 56°C for 90 minutes and 75°C for 30 minutes can inactivate the virus. virus. Human coronaviruses are not acid- or alkali-resistant, and the optimal pH for virus replication is 7.2. They are sensitive to organic solvents and disinfectants, and 75% alcohol, ether, chloroform, formaldehyde, chlorinated disinfectants, peroxyacetic acid and UV light can inactivate the virus. Among human coronaviruses, SARS-CoV can survive for at least 10 days in urine at room temperature of 24°C, more than 5 days in sputum and feces of patients with diarrhea, and about 15 days in blood, and 2-3 days on the surfaces of various objects such as plastic, glass, mosaic, metal, fabric and copy paper.
At present, the survival time of novel coronavirus at room temperature is unknown, but it has great similarity to SARS virus and many analogies can be drawn: for example, it is heat sensitive and can be inactivated at 56°C for 30 minutes, while organic solvents and disinfectants such as 75% alcohol, peracetic acid, chlorine-containing disinfectants (except chlorhexidine) are effective in killing novel coronavirus, and UV light can also inactivate the virus.
The new coronavirus pneumonia outbreak started in Wuhan and has spread rapidly since then, and is now spreading rapidly in many countries around the world. As of 24:00 Beijing time on March 10, the National Health and Welfare Commission received cumulative reports from 31 provinces (autonomous regions and municipalities directly under the Central Government) and the Xinjiang Production and Construction Corps that there were 16,145 confirmed cases (including 4,492 severe cases), 61,475 cumulative cured cases, 3,158 cumulative deaths, 80,778 cumulative reported confirmed cases, and 285 existing suspected cases. A total of 675,886 close contacts have been traced, and 14,607 close contacts are still under medical observation. There were 13 new confirmed cases in Hubei (13 cases in Wuhan), 1,471 new cured cases (1,212 cases in Wuhan), 22 new deaths (19 cases in Wuhan), and 15,671 confirmed cases (14,514 cases in Wuhan), including 4,412 serious cases (4,217 cases in Wuhan). There were 49,056 cumulative cured cases (Wuhan 33,041 cases), 3,046 cumulative deaths (Wuhan 2,423 cases), and 67,773 cumulative confirmed cases (Wuhan 49,978 cases). There were 6 new suspected cases (6 in Wuhan) and 198 existing suspected cases (192 in Wuhan). 10 new confirmed cases were reported from 0-24 March 10 (6 in Beijing, 2 in Shanghai, 1 in Shandong and 1 in Gansu). As of 24:00 on March 10, a total of 79 confirmed cases were reported from overseas. A total of 177 confirmed cases were received from Hong Kong, Macao and Taiwan: 120 cases in Hong Kong SAR (65 discharged, 3 deaths), 10 cases in Macao SAR (10 discharged), and 47 cases in Taiwan (17 discharged, 1 death).
The country's daily new confirmed cases and new suspected cases remained in double digits for five consecutive days, except for Wuhan in the last five days, two new confirmed cases locally, the epidemic overall remains at a low level, the prevention and control situation continues to improve. However, the number of confirmed cases in Hubei and Wuhan is still high, the task of prevention and control of the epidemic is still arduous and heavy, and the rapid development of the epidemic abroad brings uncertainty, so we must make further efforts, do our best, continue to grasp the two positions of hospitals and communities, and be confident to overcome the epidemic.
As of 21:00 Beijing time on March 8, 74 countries and regions worldwide were affected by the outbreak. There are 26,210 cumulative confirmed cases outside of China, 22,522 existing confirmed cases, 549 cumulative deaths, and 3,139 cumulative cured cases. With the overall number of infections in China gradually decreasing, the novel coronavirus is now spreading rapidly in other parts of the world mainly outside of China, especially in countries such as South Korea, Italy and Iran, where more than 5,000 cases have been confirmed. The World Health Organization (WHO) officially announced at a press conference in Geneva on March 11 that the new coronavirus pneumonia (COVID-19) was classified as a global pandemic, the last time it was also classified as a global pandemic was influenza A (H1N1) in 2009, which was the first time coronavirus infection was assessed as a global pandemic. SARS in 2003 did not reach this level either. The new coronavirus has entered global pandemic status. This is another escalation of the epidemic trend of the new coronavirus following the WHO's declaration on January 31, Beijing time that this new coronavirus outbreak in China constitutes a public health emergency of international concern (Public Health Emergency of International Concern, PHEIC). In a March 11 release, WHO noted that "in the past two weeks, the number of COVID-19 cases outside China has increased 13-fold and the number of countries affected by the outbreak has increased two-fold. There are now more than 118,000 confirmed cases in 114 countries worldwide, with a cumulative total of 4,291 unfortunate deaths. In the coming weeks, we believe that the number of confirmed cases, the number of deaths and the number of countries affected by the outbreak will climb further ...... Therefore, we conduct an assessment that COVID-19 can be considered a pandemic."
