(3) The patient travels on the same transport with close contact, including fellow passengers (family members, colleagues and friends, etc.) who have cared for the patient on the transport, as well as other passengers and crew members who, after investigation and assessment, are considered likely to have close contact with the patient.
(4) Field investigators investigated and assessed to be in line with other persons in contact with close contacts.
Suspected exposed persons are those who are exposed to wildlife that tests positive for novel coronavirus and its contaminated articles and environment, and who are not effectively protected at the time of exposure, such as processing, selling, handling, distribution or management.
Self-isolation methods are as follows.
1) Place the isolated person in a well-ventilated, separate room. If a separate room is not available, the caregiver should also maintain a distance of at least 1 meter from close contacts.
(2) Family members should wear masks when entering the isolated person's activity space. Deny visits from people inside or outside the family.
3) Limit the range of movement of isolated persons and ensure that shared areas (toilets and bathrooms, etc.) are well ventilated.
4) Do not spit, and cover your mouth and nose with a tissue or elbow sleeve when coughing or sneezing.
5) Wash your hands regularly. When washing hands with soap and water, it is best to use disposable hand wipes. Minimize and avoid contact with supplies used by close contacts (cell phones, remote controls, utensils and towels, etc.), disinfect public supplies (tables, chairs and door handles, etc.), and recommend the use of chlorinated disinfectants and peroxyacetic acid disinfectants.
6) Wear good disposable gloves and masks to clean and disinfect the home environment, wet mop the floor with chlorinated disinfectant daily, and seal and dispose of garbage properly. Keep the home environment clean.
Subjects under observation should seek immediate medical attention as soon as they develop symptoms, especially of acute respiratory infections, including fever, cough, sore throat, and difficulty breathing or diarrhea, as recommended below.
1) Isolated persons should wear a mask and keep more than 1 meter away from other people once they develop symptoms (this should be done for both transportation or medical facilities).
