(2) For health care workers already working on the front lines of the epidemic, schedule their shifts rationally and plan ahead so that everyone has adequate psychological expectations of their work and avoid ad hoc arrangements; maintain proper rest and ensure adequate sleep and diet. Provide rest and sleeping areas for self-isolation without returning home.
(3) For health care workers who are about to enter the frontline of an epidemic, it is recommended that a preventive interview for stress be conducted along with pre-service training. The purpose of the group interview is to: openly discuss internal feelings; support and reassure; mobilize resources; and help the person prepare psychologically (cognitively and emotionally) for the stress.
(4) Make health care workers aware of normal reactions to catastrophic events and provide timely assistance when the following signs occur: difficulty communicating thoughts, difficulty remembering instructions, difficulty maintaining balance, arguments over trivial matters, difficulty making decisions, narrow attention span, unnecessary risk-taking behavior, tremor/headache/nausea, limited vision/blurred hearing, cold or flu-like symptoms, disorientation or mental confusion , difficulty concentrating, purposeless movements, easily frustrated, difficulty solving problems, difficulty calming down when off duty, refusal to carry out orders, refusal to leave the scene, increased use of drugs/alcohol, appearing clumsier than usual, etc.
Health care professionals should also be aware of their state and help themselves and others in a timely manner.
(1) Allow yourself to show weakness. When you feel that you cannot bear the pressure, please tell the leader in charge in time and do things according to your ability. Also allow yourself to cry when you are sad and moved. Doctors and nurses are not steel, they also have emotions, they also have anxiety, fear, anxiety and fear. Be firm and tell yourself: In such a major public event, in such a harsh battlefield, it is normal and natural for me to have these emotions, and I will recover when such a stressful event is over. Never self-depreciate, or even rise to self-worth and lose hope in life.
(2) Limit working hours; drink plenty of water and eat healthful foods such as fresh fruit; take frequent short breaks away from the site if possible.
(3) In your spare time, perform appropriate muscle relaxation exercises, i.e., gradually tense and relax each muscle group, so that the muscles can experience the sensation of tension and relaxation. Or perform deep breathing exercises, meditation, positive thinking, etc. Related instructional phrases and information can be found on the Internet.
(4) Talk about what you have seen and how you feel about doing your job; stay in touch with your family and friends; and buddy up with another colleague so you can monitor the stress you are experiencing.
(5) If stress symptoms have occurred, switch jobs: from a high stress position to a low stress position, or from the field to a regular position if that works; consult and seek help through the unit.
(6) In case of emergency, such as sudden transfer of post, major casualty accident, death of a colleague, death of a patient, suicide of a patient, etc., professionals should be asked to conduct a group interview for serious incidents.
(7) If you experience inability to sleep, depression, anxiety, panic attacks, etc., which cannot be relieved for 2 weeks and affect your work, you may seek consultation with a professional psychiatric psychologist. One-on-one psychological counseling and group psychological counseling can be carried out. The above psychological counseling can be conducted remotely to prevent infection of psychological intervention personnel, such as voice, video, telephone and other various methods.
Faced with the continuous spread and development of the Newcastle pneumonia epidemic, every member of the general public in the midst of the epidemic is faced with the unknown risk of the disease. According to reports, the general public has strong emotional reactions to the epidemic such as worry, fear, and anger, and positive emotions are significantly reduced, and many people are even experiencing significant disruptions in their normal lives due to the persistence of negative emotions and difficulties in getting rid of them. The following methods can improve the general public's ability to self-regulate at home, so that they can respond positively and rationally to the epidemic.
