(8) Finding the positive meaning in adversity
We can take the isolation as a short vacation, so that we can temporarily get away from the hustle and bustle of the crowd, calmly think about the problems we didn't have time to think about before, read the books and entertainment we want to read, listen to our favorite music, and enjoy a short period of solitude and separation.
(9) Make good use of the help of professional psychology
If necessary, you can consult your condition online to get scientific and reasonable advice, or call a psychological intervention or counseling hotline when self-adjustment is difficult.
The duties of medical workers in this epidemic dictate that they have the most important and at the same time the most dangerous task in this battle. Under heavy pressure, the most common reactions of medical personnel included the following.
(1) They are afraid that their family members will worry about them, so they will always try to find time to contact their family members and report to them. When they hear that their family members are in trouble, they will feel sad and blame themselves for not doing more for them.
(2) As they are busy with a lot of clinical work every day, they will be physically and psychologically exhausted. If the information is not well communicated, they will feel confused about the work prospect, think that the work is long and indefinite, and become pessimistic and averse to doing clinical work every day.
(3) When seeing a patient in great pain and not being able to save his life despite his best efforts, he will psychologically feel self-defeated and think that he is not a good doctor or nurse, and strongly blame himself and feel guilty.
(4) When seeing other health care workers in the ward are busy treating patients, they will feel that others are stronger than they are and think they are the most vulnerable person, thus not accepting their vulnerability, not daring to admit and express their painful emotions, and not wanting to communicate with others, worrying that they will be looked down upon by others after they tell their feelings, often bearing the pain alone, relying on reason and will to suppress and control As a result, they feel more painful and helpless.
In the above-mentioned situations, health care workers become anxious, cannot control their temper often, and become impatient with patients and colleagues. When encountering complaints from patients, they feel aggrieved and unappreciated. These psychological reactions can largely affect the mutual cooperation and efficiency of health care workers. Therefore, they should receive timely psychological counseling and help. At this time, society, hospitals and individuals can take some necessary interventions to maintain a good psychological state and actively make good psychological adjustment, which can both maintain combat effectiveness and effectively prevent trauma and stress disorders.
Societies and hospitals can.
(1) Eliminate the worries of front-line medical workers as much as possible, and arrange volunteers to assist their families in case of family difficulties, so that medical workers can put their minds at ease into their work.
