Finally, parents are reminded to do their daily protection against some common childhood diseases, such as rhinitis, pharyngitis, tonsillitis, common cold, constipation, abdominal pain and diarrhea, to reduce the chance of hospital visits and reduce the risk of cross-infection with the virus.
During the special period of epidemic outbreak, if there are no special instructions or requirements from the government or the maternity hospital, pregnant mothers can insist on normal maternity checkups and be prepared to wear medical grade or higher masks and carry hand sanitizer or disinfectant wipes before going to the maternity hospital; do not touch the mouth, nose, eyes, etc. without washing hands; cooperate with the hospital for temperature screening, including epidemiological screening, etc.; follow the hospital's advice, such as splitting up the time slots to avoid too many pregnant women waiting together; wash hands and faces when leaving the hospital. When you go to the hospital, you should always cooperate with the hospital for temperature screening, including epidemiological screening, etc.; follow the hospital's advice, such as splitting the consultation time to avoid too many pregnant women being grouped together and reduce the waiting time or consultation time in the hospital; when you leave the hospital, you should wash your hands and face, and washing your face should include washing your ears and nose, and you should also change your external clothing. Without special problems, pregnant women whose gestational weeks are in early and middle pregnancy can extend the interval between visits to the hospital appropriately on the advice of the doctor. If a pregnant woman has a fever, it is recommended to visit the fever clinic directly first, and then, depending on the results of the examination, a series of subsequent examinations or recommendations will be given.
The early manifestations of novel coronavirus pneumonia lack characteristics and are not easily distinguishable from upper respiratory tract infections caused by the common cold or other pathogens, making it difficult to self-diagnose. If pregnant mothers have symptoms such as fever and cough, they need to pay attention to monitor their body temperature and keep records of the symptoms such as vomiting, abdominal pain, diarrhea, muscle aches, etc. Do not self-medicate, and consult your obstetrician before using medication; if the symptoms are mild and no other symptoms appear, consider dealing with them at home to avoid cross-infection at the hospital; if obstetric emergencies occur If there are symptoms of obstetric emergencies, such as vaginal bleeding, abdominal pain, abnormal fetal movement, signs of labor, etc., it is recommended that you should take good precautions and go to the hospital in time.
If a pregnant mother develops symptoms such as low fever, sore throat and cough and has risk factors such as having been to an area where the disease is endemic and possibly having been in contact with a patient with New Coronary Pneumonia, home isolation should be started immediately. When the disease worsens, symptoms such as high fever and dyspnea should be promptly seen at a fever clinic. There are not enough data to confirm the risk of maternal-fetal transmission of novel coronavirus infection. If a pregnant woman is diagnosed with novel coronavirus pneumonia, a multidisciplinary consultation should be conducted to determine whether to continue the pregnancy, taking into account the patient's specific circumstances, including gestational age and severity of illness.
If a pregnant mother has symptoms of pneumonia, she should go to the emergency room. The emergency medical staff will first prediagnose and triage pregnant mothers with fever and suspected pneumonia, take their temperature, and direct them to the designated fever clinic; at the same time, the fever clinic staff will organize a consultation with obstetricians and perform obstetric examinations, fetal heart monitoring, and ultrasound to assess the intrauterine safety of the fetus if necessary. Currently, suspected and confirmed cases of pulmonary infection in pregnancy are being seen in the obstetrics departments of medical institutions in Hubei Province at all gestational ages. Effective measures are being taken in all regions to designate medical institutions with strong comprehensive obstetric and neonatal care capabilities to provide maternal care and safe delivery services to ensure the safety of mothers and infants. There is no evidence that the virus can be transmitted to newborns. It is recommended that the baby be isolated for 10 days after birth and not breastfed while under close supervision.
Medical personnel should follow the standard precautionary principles and do a good job in hospital infection control such as personal protection, hand hygiene, ward management, environmental ventilation, cleaning and disinfection of object surfaces and medical waste management according to the risks that may be transmitted by medical operations to avoid hospital infections to the greatest extent possible. The following points need to be noted during daily treatment activities.
(1) engaged in medical treatment activities, medical and nursing staff should wear medical masks, and regular replacement.
(2) Medical staff at the pre-care triage office must wear overalls, work caps, and medical surgical masks.
(3) Give patients and accompanying family members to wear medical surgical masks during the face consultation and keep a certain distance. Do the effective ventilation of the consultation room.
(4) Medical and nursing staff in fever clinics, respiratory clinics, infectious disease departments and isolation wards should wear work clothes, disposable isolation clothing, work caps and medical surgical masks during daily consultation activities and room visits.
(5) Protective masks and goggles or protective face screens should be worn when collecting respiratory samples.
(6) Contact with blood, body fluids, secretions or excretions should be added when wearing latex gloves.
