Central air conditioning system fan coils in normal use, regular disinfection of the air supply and return air outlets. If there is an epidemic, do not stop the fan operation, should be closed after the evacuation of personnel, the exhaust branch, run for a period of time to shut down the fresh air exhaust system, while disinfection. All-air system with return air should be completely closed the return air to ensure that the system runs with all fresh air.
During the epidemic prevention period, do hand hygiene before and after taking off masks, put discarded masks in the garbage cans, and disinfect the garbage cans twice a day with 75% alcohol or chlorine-containing disinfectant.
Entry work and elevator ride
Before entering the office building, you should take a temperature test and go to the bathroom to wash your hands. If your body temperature exceeds 37.2℃, please do not enter the building to work, and go home to observe and rest, or go to the hospital if necessary.
The frequency of elevator rides should be reduced, and passengers on low floors can take the stairs on foot. Carry toilet paper (gloves) with you, and press the elevator button through the toilet paper (gloves). Dispose of the toilet paper (gloves) properly after use. Stand on both sides of the hall door while waiting for the elevator, do not get too close to the hall door, and do not touch the passengers coming out of the elevator car face to face. After the passenger comes out of the car, press the button outside the elevator hall to prevent the elevator from closing and wait for a moment before entering the elevator. Avoid riding in the elevator with more than one stranger. Passengers who have enough time can wait patiently for the next elevator. Try not to use the elevator to carry things and reduce the contact between your belongings and the elevator car. Wash and disinfect your hands promptly after riding in the elevator.
Elevator units should pay attention to the health of passengers, feverish people have a need to take the elevator (such as hospitals), and conditions allow, can be set up independently a special elevator for feverish people, and strengthen the maintenance and control of the elevator. For elevators with ventilation fans installed in the cabin, the ventilation fans should be kept open for a long time. For elevators without ventilation fans installed in the cabin, the cabin doors can be opened regularly for ventilation in combination with disinfection work. Each ventilation time should be at least 10 minutes. During a pneumonia epidemic, local disinfection (such as elevator key panels) and full disinfection can be alternated. If a confirmed or suspected case is found to have ridden in an elevator, the elevator operation should be stopped immediately and disposed of in accordance with the requirements of the health prevention department.
Elevator disinfection work should be carried out by trained personnel with certain knowledge of disinfection, and accompanied by elevator maintenance personnel. Personnel should wear work clothes, gloves, work shoes, masks, hats, goggles, etc. when necessary. And prepare disinfection medicine and items, clean rags, spray cans, warning signs, mops, etc. Before starting disinfection, the elevator should first be stopped and warning signs set. Clean the elevator thoroughly and then disinfect it. If ultraviolet light is used for disinfection, the car door should be closed and the car should be irradiated by ultraviolet light for not less than half an hour. If disinfectant is used, a clean rag can be dipped into the disinfectant and wiped on the button panel, handrail and other parts frequently touched by passengers. Other parts such as hall door and car wall can be sprayed and coated with a small amount of spraying bottle. After disinfection for a specified period of time, wring out the wet rag and wipe the key panel and other parts to avoid corrosion of the elevator electronic components by the disinfectant. Other parts can be removed with a wet rag to avoid residual disinfectant damage to human body. After disinfection is completed, resume normal operation of the elevator, retrieve the warning sign, bring back the tools and make records of the elevator cleaning and disinfection. Staff take off protective equipment and bring it back in bags for disposal and personnel for sanitary disposal.
Inside the office
Keep the office area clean, it is recommended to ventilate 3 times a day for 20-30 minutes each time, and pay attention to keeping warm when ventilating. Maintain a distance of more than 1 meter between people, and wear a mask when working with multiple people and entering the bathroom. Maintain diligent hand washing, drink more water, and insist on strict hand washing before eating and after toileting in accordance with the six-step method.
Daily disinfection of shared items in the office, especially common contact areas, e.g., kettles, phones, printers, etc. Disinfecting wipes or 75% alcohol wipes can be used. This can be increased to four times if used frequently. When working in the office, wash hands before and after passing paper documents, and wear a mask when passing documents.
Participation in conferences and official visits
Use telephone and video conferencing as much as possible to reduce centralized meetings. During face-to-face meetings, control the length of the meeting and recommend that all participants wear masks and wash their hands to disinfect before entering the meeting room. Separate meeting participants by more than 1 meter. When the meeting is too long, open the window for ventilation once. After the meeting, the venue and furniture must be disinfected. It is recommended to disinfect teaware by soaking in boiling water.
