Preface
Since December 2019, several cases of novel infectious diseases caused by novel coronavirus infection with predominantly pulmonary lesions have been detected in Wuhan, Hubei Province. As the outbreak spreads, such cases have been identified in other regions of China and outside China. The clinical features of this viral infection are fever, dry cough, shortness of breath, generally low or decreased peripheral blood leukocytes, and inflammatory changes on chest radiographs. The World Health Organization (WHO) confirmed and named its pathogen COVID-19, a novel coronavirus belonging to the genus β. It was designated as a Public Health Emergency of International Concern (PHEIC) on January 31, 2020.
To improve the knowledge and understanding of the general public and related industries about the novel coronavirus pneumonia, guide personal prevention, reduce the risk of transmission, and prevent the disease scientifically, our society has urgently organized the compilation of the book "Concordia Novel Coronavirus Pneumonia Protection Manual". The book is divided into six parts: understanding novel coronavirus pneumonia, symptoms, medical care, isolation, treatment, preventive measures, prevention for special populations, psychological support, and nutritional advice for novel coronavirus pneumonia protection, to answer the public's questions in the fight against novel coronavirus pneumonia.
The elderly, children, and pregnant women are the groups that need special attention in the prevention and control of novel coronavirus pneumonia outbreaks. Therefore, we have developed specific protective measures for these populations, which we hope will be useful.
Please refer to the latest version provided by the QR code at the end of this article for any inaccuracies in the following contents. If there are any errors, please feel free to correct them.
Coronavirus (CoV) belongs to Nidovirales, Coro⁃naviridae, Orthocoronavirinae, and is a class of RNA viruses with a capsid and a linear single-stranded positive-stranded genome. The viral genome has a methylated capsid structure at the 5′ end and a poly(A) tail at the 3′ end, and the genome is 27-32 kb in length, which is the largest genome of any RNA virus known to date. Coronaviruses are widespread in nature and are named for the presence of many small protrusions (spines) on the exterior of the virus, resembling a corolla (Figure 1).
Coronaviruses infect only vertebrates and are associated with a wide range of diseases in humans and animals, causing multiple systemic disease manifestations including respiratory, digestive, and neurological diseases as well as the cardiovascular system of humans and animals.
According to the phylogenetic tree, coronaviruses can be divided into four genera: α, β, γ, and δ, where β genus coronaviruses can be further divided into four independent subgroups A, B, C, and D groups. Animal coronaviruses include mammalian coronaviruses and avian coronaviruses. Mammalian coronaviruses are mainly α and β genus coronaviruses, which can infect a variety of animals including bats, pigs, dogs, cats, rats, cattle, horses, etc. Avian coronaviruses mainly originate from γ and δ genus coronaviruses, which can cause disease in a variety of avian species such as chickens, turkeys, sparrows, ducks, and geese and pigeons.
Coronaviruses that can infect humans are referred to as human coronaviruses. To date, in addition to the novel coronavirus that caused the current outbreak of viral pneumonia in Wuhan, a total of 6 human infectious coronaviruses (HCoV-229E, HCoV-OC43, SARS-CoV, HCoV-NL63, HCoV-HKU1 and MERS-CoV) have been identified. Among them, four coronaviruses cause common human infections but are less pathogenic and generally cause only mild respiratory symptoms similar to the common cold; the other two coronaviruses - severe acute respiratory syndrome coronavirus and Middle East respiratory syndrome coronavirus, also commonly known as SARS coronavirus and MERS coronavirus can cause severe respiratory diseases. According to the World Health Organization (WHO) and domestic experts, the source of the viral pneumonia outbreak was the seventh member of the coronavirus family, which was named COVID-19 by WHO on February 11, where "Co" stands for "coronavirus" and "Vi" stands for "coronavirus. On February 11, the World Health Organization named it COVID-19, where "Co" stands for "coronavirus", "Vi" for "virus", and "D" for "disease". On the same day, the International Committee on Taxonomy of Viruses (ICTV) announced its official classification as SARS-CoV-2, which is the same "species" as SARS virus. A Chinese research team discovered that the new coronavirus has recently generated 149 mutation sites and evolved two subtypes, subtype L and subtype S. It was found that these two subtypes showed great measurement differences in terms of geographical distribution and proportion in the population. The S subtype is relatively old, while the L subtype is more aggressive and more infectious. An in-depth understanding of the different subtypes will help to differentiate the treatment and prevention and control of NCCP.
Most of the knowledge on the physicochemical properties of human coronaviruses comes from studies on SARS-CoV and MERS-CoV. Coronaviruses are sensitive to heat and are moderately stable in suitable maintenance solution at 4°C and can be stored for several years at -60°C. However, the activity of the virus decreases with increasing temperature, e.g., HCoV-229E can lose its infectivity at 56°C for 10 minutes or 37°C for several hours, SARS-CoV can survive for 4 days at 37°C, and heating at 56°C for 90 minutes and 75°C for 30 minutes can inactivate the virus. virus. Human coronaviruses are not acid- or alkali-resistant, and the optimal pH for virus replication is 7.2. They are sensitive to organic solvents and disinfectants, and 75% alcohol, ether, chloroform, formaldehyde, chlorinated disinfectants, peroxyacetic acid and UV light can inactivate the virus. Among human coronaviruses, SARS-CoV can survive for at least 10 days in urine at room temperature of 24°C, more than 5 days in sputum and feces of patients with diarrhea, and about 15 days in blood, and 2-3 days on the surfaces of various objects such as plastic, glass, mosaic, metal, fabric and copy paper.
At present, the survival time of novel coronavirus at room temperature is unknown, but it has great similarity to SARS virus and many analogies can be drawn: for example, it is heat sensitive and can be inactivated at 56°C for 30 minutes, while organic solvents and disinfectants such as 75% alcohol, peracetic acid, chlorine-containing disinfectants (except chlorhexidine) are effective in killing novel coronavirus, and UV light can also inactivate the virus.
