Three, travelers operating guidelines
(a) Wear masks and gloves. Travelers taking public transportation, it is recommended to wear medical surgical masks (or other higher level masks), and discarded in time at the end of the trip. Travelers who have the option to wear gloves, single-use gloves can not be reused, other reuse gloves need to pay attention to cleaning and disinfection, can circulate steam or boiling disinfection for 30 minutes, or first soak in 500mg / L of chlorine disinfectant for 30 minutes, and then routine cleaning can be.
(ii) Hand hygiene. Pay attention to hand hygiene, travelers should enhance hand hygiene during the trip, and hand hygiene is required after the trip. Effective alcohol-containing quick-drying hand sanitizer can be used, and under special conditions, chlorine-containing or hydrogen peroxide hand sanitizer can also be used; hand sanitizer should be used to wash hands under running water when there are contaminants visible to the naked eye, and then disinfected.
(C) pay attention to maintain distance. Travelers on public transport, when available, try to keep a certain distance between each other.
(iv) Actively cooperate with the staff. In daily situations, listen to the arrangements of public transportation staff and do personal protection. When a suspected or confirmed case appears, listen to the staff's instructions, promptly self-isolate, follow the arrangements for screening and testing, and do not leave privately.
(1) Schools and child care institutions
1) Strengthen the ventilation of the teaching and living environment (e.g. classrooms, music rooms, dance rooms, reading rooms, nursery rooms, dormitories, teaching and research rooms) in schools and childcare institutions to maintain air circulation and clean indoor and outdoor environmental hygiene. Avoid holding school-wide or garden-wide indoor assemblies and other activities.
(2) Implement hand hygiene, set up sufficient hand-washing taps, and equip hand sanitizer or soap for teachers and students to use; childcare institutions are implemented daily by caregivers for children to wash their hands regularly. Promote the correct hand washing technique.
3) To strengthen preventive disinfection, public classroom places (such as music rooms, dance rooms, computer rooms) are recommended for a group of students to go in and disinfect once. Classroom desks, chairs, and other surfaces with high human contact can be disinfected by spraying or wiping with a chlorine-containing disinfectant with an effective chlorine level of 250-500 mg/L for 30 minutes and then washing with water. For objects that are not resistant to corrosion, 75% alcohol or 0.1% benzalkonium bromide (Neosporin) can be used for wiping and disinfection, and safety should be observed when using it. For large areas of floors and walls, chlorine disinfectant with an effective chlorine level of 250-500 mg/L can be sprayed from the inside out, the amount of spraying should be wet and without dripping, and the action time should be not less than 30 minutes.
(4) Carry out various forms of health education in schools and childcare institutions to popularize the knowledge of prevention and control of respiratory infectious diseases. Establish a sound mechanism for contacting schools, parents, students and medical institutions, improve information collection and reporting channels, and ensure the smooth flow of information.
(5) Strengthen health monitoring and material stockpiling. To have a person to implement the morning and afternoon checkups, do a good job of tracking the absence from school due to illness and the registration of the cause of the disease, and report in a timely manner when abnormalities such as an unusual increase in cases of respiratory infectious diseases are detected. Strengthen the stockpile of protective supplies, the school nurse's office to stock a certain number of medical masks, disposable gloves, hand sanitizer and cold medicine.
(6) to carry out various forms of health education and popularize the knowledge of prevention and control of respiratory infectious diseases.
