Visitors are required to wear a mask. Before entering the office building, first conduct a temperature test, and introduce any history of Lakeland exposure and symptoms such as fever, cough and breathlessness. No such conditions and normal body temperature conditions, before entering the building for public work. Receive outsiders on both sides to wear masks.
Canteen meals
Adopt staggered meals. It is recommended that employees who are in a position to do so bring their own lunch boxes and bring them back to the office for meals after purchase to avoid crowding. The restaurant is disinfected once a day, and tables and chairs are disinfected after use. Disinfection of tableware is required at high temperature. Keep the operation room clean and dry, strictly prohibit the mixing of raw food and cooked food supplies, and avoid raw meat. It is recommended that nutritious meals be prepared, light and palatable.
Official Travel
Travelers must wear masks to travel and avoid dense crowds. Maintain a distance of more than 1 meter from human contact and avoid prolonged stay in public places.
It is recommended that the interior and door handles of the shuttle bus be wiped with 75% alcohol once a day when traveling. The shuttle bus must wear a mask, and it is recommended that the shuttle bus be wiped with 75% alcohol to disinfect the interior and door handles after use.
Logisticians
Service personnel, security personnel and cleaning personnel must wear masks when working and keep a safe distance from people. Canteen procurement staff or supply staff must wear masks and disposable rubber gloves to avoid direct hand contact with meat and poultry raw materials, and wash hands and disinfect after removing gloves. Cleaning staff must wear disposable rubber gloves when working, and wash their hands after work to disinfect. Security personnel shall wear masks and carefully inquire and register the status of outsiders, and report any abnormalities in a timely manner.
(3) Public transportation
See "Technical Guidelines for Public Transport Disinfection Operations".
Public transport disinfection operation technical guide
I. Scope
