(7) Medical protective masks, goggles or protective face screens, latex gloves, medical gowns (disposable impermeable barrier gowns can be added) and breathing hoods should be worn when performing tracheal intubation, bronchoscopy, airway care and suctioning, etc., where aerosol or splash operations may occur.
(8) It is forbidden to leave the contaminated area wearing personal protective equipment in order to avoid cross-infection in each partition. Strictly follow the process of putting on and taking off equipment (see "Process of putting on and taking off protective equipment for medical personnel").
The process of putting on and taking off protective equipment for medical personnel
A. Medical staff to enter the isolation ward to wear protective equipment procedures
(A) medical staff through the staff special channel into the clean area, carefully wash their hands after wearing medical protective masks, disposable hats or cloth caps, change of work shoes and socks, the conditions can be replaced by hand-brushing clothes and pants.
(ii) Wear work clothes before entering the potentially contaminated area, and wear gloves to enter the potentially contaminated area if the skin on the hands is broken or suspected of having damage.
(C) before entering the contaminated area, take off work clothes for protective clothing or isolation clothing, plus wear disposable hats and disposable medical surgical masks (wearing a total of two layers of hats, masks), protective glasses, gloves, shoe covers.
Second, medical personnel leave the isolation area to take off protective equipment procedures
(A) medical personnel should disinfect their hands before leaving the contaminated area, in turn, take off protective glasses, outer disposable medical surgical mask and outer disposable hat, protective clothing or isolation clothing, shoe covers, gloves and other items, divided into special containers, hand disinfection again, enter the potentially contaminated area, change to wear work clothes.
(b) Before leaving the potentially contaminated area and entering the clean area, wash hands and hand disinfection, take off work clothes, wash hands and hand disinfection.
(C) before leaving the clean area, hand washing and hand disinfection, remove the lining disposable cap or cloth cap, lining medical protective mask, shower and dressing, and oral, nasal and external ear canal cleaning.
(iv) Wash and disinfect hands immediately after each contact with the patient.
