On December 27, 2019, Guangzhou Micro Far Genetics finally assembled a near-complete genome sequence of the unknown virus and shared the data with the Institute of Pathogen Biology, Chinese Academy of Medical Sciences. Later, after making a more detailed comparison and analysis, it was found that the virus was not identical to all known genomic information and might be a novel virus similar to Bat SARS-like coronavirus (BSCV). This data was later submitted to the Global Influenza Data Sharing Initiative website by the Chinese Academy of Medical Sciences on Jan. 11, and the analysis is the earliest dated sample in the database.
On December 30, 2019, the Medical Administration and Medical Management Division of the Wuhan Health and Health Commission, began to send emergency notifications to hospitals at all levels in Wuhan and issued two documents setting out measures for the rescue and treatment of pneumonia of unknown origin [Note 2] when diagnosed. The document flowed out of the health care system in the evening and was widely circulated on the Internet. In the evening, doctors such as Li Wenliang, Liu Wen, and Xielinka disclosed the news related to the outbreak early in an internal WeChat group to provide reference for the hospital's medical staff. Wuhan Central Hospital sent a sample to the Beijing Boao Medical Laboratory on December 27. The laboratory sent the test report back to the hospital on December 30, which listed "SARS coronavirus" (SARS coronavirus) as one of the "high confidence" positive results. Li Wenliang, an ophthalmologist at Wuhan Central Hospital, circulated the test report within the hospital at 17:48 using WeChat to post the news "7 cases of SARS were confirmed at South China Fruit and Seafood Market" and photos of the test report in a group of classmates.
On December 31, 2019, the Wuhan CDC confirmed to the media that the document was true and issued an information circular [Note 3] to begin informing the public about the cases, stating that it was checking what kind of pneumonia it was. On the other hand, the Wuhan Health and Health Commission published the "Information Bulletin of the Wuhan Health and Health Commission on the Current Pneumonia Epidemic in the City", stating that 27 cases had been identified. Both the WHO office in China and the government of the People's Republic of China indicated that they had also informed WHO headquarters of the situation on the same day [Note 4], and that a large number of cases had visited the South China Seafood Market in Wuhan hospitals in mid to late December [Note 5]. On the same day, Taiwan's Agency for Disease Control learned of the suspected SARS outbreak in China through the local media and sent an email to the WHO International Health Regulations Contact Window requesting further information on the outbreak. The email was sent to the WHO International Health Regulations Contact Window requesting further information on the outbreak of atypical pneumonia, mentioning "atypical pneumonia", "patients have been treated in isolation", and confirming the outbreak with the Chinese Center for Disease Control and Prevention in mainland China. Mainland China responded in the evening that the diagnosis was confirmed and informed that experts had been sent to Wuhan to investigate, pointing out that 27 cases of pneumonia had recently been found there, seven of which were in critical condition and had been treated in isolation, with two cases improving. The clinical manifestations provided in the diagnosis, the main symptoms have for fever, a few patients with respiratory distress, showing double lung infiltrative lesions, most of the cases for Wuhan City, Jianghan District, South China Seafood City operators, has not yet found obvious human-to-human transmission phenomenon and health care workers infected. Taiwan on the same day began to direct flights from Wuhan to Taiwan for the entry quarantine.
2020
January
Animation of the global spread of the epidemic from January 12, 2020 to February 29, 2020: countries and regions with confirmed cases in red (shades of color indicate the number of cases) and countries and regions with no confirmed cases in gray.
In the early morning of January 5, 2020, Yongzhen Zhang's team at Fudan University detected a novel SARS-like coronavirus from samples in Wuhan, China, and obtained the full genome sequence of the virus.
On January 6, 2020, a Level II emergency response was activated within the CDC.
On January 7, 2020, Xi Jinping, General Secretary of the CPC Central Committee, presided over the Standing Committee of the Political Bureau of the CPC Central Committee and put forward requirements for the prevention and control of the epidemic.
On January 9, 2020, the "Wuhan Viral Pneumonia Pathogenic Test Results Preliminary Assessment Panel" officially declared the pathogen as a novel coronavirus.
On January 15, 2020, the CDC switched to a Level 1 emergency response.
