2019
Early unconfirmed case reports
See also: Epidemiological tracing of severe acute respiratory syndrome coronavirus 2
Some medical and environmental analyses in Italy, France and the United States suggest that the virus may have spread for several weeks before December 2019. For its part, a World Health Organization report noted, "These findings are unconfirmed, the methods used are not standardized, and serological tests may have non-specific signals." The World Health Organization urged further investigation of these potential early events.
December
Main Entry: 2019 Coronavirus disease Wuhan outbreak ยง 2019
In December, the first pandemic strain of Newcastle pneumonia, "China Wuhan original virus strain 19A", was introduced.
Post hoc epidemiological investigations pointed to the earliest known case symptoms occurring on December 1, 2019. According to the post hoc recollection of the outpatient physician at the Wuhan City Ufologic Hospital, on December 12, 2019, the hospital saw a 69-year-old male trader at the Wuhan City Huainan Seafood Market who had first appeared with respiratory symptoms, but the fever clinic at this small hospital was unable to confirm these abnormal cases, and after advising the patient to undergo a CT examination to no avail, the outpatient physician had to advise him to go to another better-equipped hospital, a referral time, there was some delay in the discovery of the outbreak. The post hoc study by Huang Chaolin and other scholars said that at the very beginning of the epidemic, the local CDC had concentrated several patients in Wuhan Jinyintan Hospital for isolation and collection of samples and data, of which the earliest data samples had been one taken on December 16, 2019, and sent for testing one after another in the process of attempting treatment. It was not until after the doctors in the emergency department of Wuhan Central Hospital had treated the 65-year-old patient suspected of possible community-acquired pneumonia [Note 1] with various antibiotics that remained ineffective that they finally decided to send the alveolar lavage fluid samples to a third-party testing organization, Guangzhou Weifang Genetics, for testing based on second-generation high-throughput sequencing (NGS) technology so as to try to identify the actual pathogen. Guangzhou Micro Far Genetics in Huangpu, Guangzhou, the first known external laboratory to perform preliminary analysis of the novel coronavirus pathogen, received the sample by courier on December 24 and raised the alarm by finding the SARS coronavirus with approximately 94.5% similarity in the automated mNGS pathogenic microbial interpretation results on December 26.
This unexplained pneumonia was first identified and reported by Dr. Jixian Zhang in the Department of Respiratory and Critical Care Medicine on December 26, 2019, and was suspected to be an infectious disease.
A paper titled "New coronavirus has spread in France at the end of December 2019" was published on May 3, 2020 in the medical journal International Journal of Antimicrobial Agents. Researchers selected 14 intensive care unit cases of influenza illness (ILI) between Dec. 2, 2019, and Jan. 16, 2020, for re-testing for severe acute respiratory syndrome coronavirus 2 nucleic acid from April 6 to 9 and found a positive sample from a 42-year-old man. The lack of association with China and the absence of a history of foreign travel prior to the onset of the case suggested that severe acute respiratory syndrome coronavirus 2 had spread in France in late December 2019.
